Twenty-two β-resorcylic acid lactones (RALs) were evaluated for cytotoxicity against human breast cancer cells to find their structure-activity relationship (SAR). Monocillin II, a trans-enone RAL without epoxy and conjugated dienone, was found to have higher activity in inhibiting tumor cell growth in both in vitro experiment and in vivo nude xenografted mice model than its analogue radicicol, an anticancer lead compound. We demonstrated for the first time that monocillin II could arrest breast cancer cell cycle in G1 phase, which might partially be the result of its inhibition effect on the phosphorylation of the Thr160 residue of cyclin dependent kinase 2 (CDK2), a key enzyme in cell-cycle regulation. Moreover, monocillin II exhibited inhibition of heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) and depleted its target proteins, Raf-1 and A-Raf, which are involved in Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. Remarkably, we found that monocillin II could inhibit activation of MAPKs including ERK, JNK and p38, which might be involved in the inactivation of CDK2. These results suggest that monocillin II has potential therapeutic benefits in breast cancer prevention and intervention. The clinical benefits of oncogenic BRAF inhibitor therapies are limited by the emergence of drug resistance. In this study, we investigated the role of a negative regulator of the MAPK pathway, Spry2, in acquired resistance using BRAF inhibitor-resistant derivatives of the BRAF-V600E melanoma (A375P/Mdr). Real-time RT-PCR analysis indicated that the expression of Spry2 was higher in A375P cells harboring the BRAF V600E mutation compared with wild-type BRAF-bearing cells (SK-MEL-2) that are resistant to BRAF inhibitors. This result suggests the ability of BRAF V600E to evade feedback suppression in cell lines with BRAF V600E mutations despite high Spry2 expression. Most interestingly, Spry2 exhibited strongly reduced expression in A375P/Mdr cells with acquired resistance to BRAF inhibitors. Furthermore, the overexpression of Spry2 partially restored sensitivity to the BRAF inhibitor PLX4720 in two BRAF inhibitor-resistant cells, indicating a positive role for Spry2 in the growth inhibition induced by BRAF inhibitors. On the other hand, long-term treatment with PLX4720 induced pERK reactivation following BRAF inhibition in A375P cells, indicating that negative feedback including Spry2 may be bypassed in BRAF mutant melanoma cells. In addition, the siRNA-mediated knockdown of Raf-1 attenuated the rebound activation of ERK stimulated by PLX4720 in A375P cells, strongly suggesting the positive role of Raf-1 kinase in ERK activation in response to BRAF inhibition. Taken together, these data suggest that RAF signaling may be released from negative feedback inhibition through interacting with Spry2, leading to ERK rebound and, consequently, the induction of acquired resistance to BRAF inhibitors. Licorice is a traditional botanical medicine, and has historically been commonly prescribed in Asia to treat various diseases. Glycyrrhizin (Gc), a triterpene compound, is the most abundant phytochemical constituent of licorice. However, high intake or long-term consumption of Gc has been associated with a number of side effects, including hypertension. However, the presence of alternative bioactive compounds in licorice with anti-carcinogenic effects has long been suspected. Licochalcone A (LicoA) is a prominent member of the chalcone family and can be isolated from licorice root. To date, there have been no reported studies on the suppressive effect of LicoA against solar ultraviolet (sUV)-induced cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 expression and the potential molecular mechanisms involved. Here, we show that LicoA, a major chalcone compound of licorice, effectively inhibits sUV-induced COX-2 expression and prostaglandin E2 PGE2 generation through the inhibition of activator protein 1 AP-1 transcriptional activity, with an effect that is notably more potent than Gc. Western blotting analysis shows that LicoA suppresses sUV-induced phosphorylation of Akt/ mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK)1/2/p90 ribosomal protein S6 kinase (RSK) in HaCaT cells. Moreover, LicoA directly suppresses the activity of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)1, and B-Raf, but not Raf-1 in cell-free assays, indicating that PI3K, MEK1, and B-Raf are direct molecular targets of LicoA. We also found that LicoA binds to PI3K and B-Raf in an ATP-competitive manner, although LicoA does not appear to compete with ATP for binding with MEK1. Collectively, these results provide insight into the biological action of LicoA, which may have potential for development as a skin cancer chemopreventive agent. Store-operated Ca(2+) entry (SOCE) is a major mechanism of Ca(2) (+) import from extracellular to intracellular space, involving detection of Ca(2+) store depletion in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) by stromal interaction molecule (STIM) proteins, which then translocate to plasma membrane and activate Orai Ca(2+) channels there. We found that STIM1 and Orai1 isoforms were abundantly expressed in human melanoma tissues and multiple melanoma/melanocyte cell lines. We confirmed that these cell lines exhibited SOCE, which was inhibited by knockdown of STIM1 or Orai1, or by a pharmacological SOCE inhibitor. Inhibition of SOCE suppressed melanoma cell proliferation and migration/metastasis. Induction of SOCE was associated with activation of extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and was inhibited by inhibitors of calmodulin kinase II (CaMKII) or Raf-1, suggesting that SOCE-mediated cellular functions are controlled via the CaMKII/Raf-1/ERK signaling pathway. Our findings indicate that SOCE contributes to melanoma progression, and therefore may be a new potential target for treatment of melanoma, irrespective of whether or not Braf mutation is present. The activation kinetics of MAPK Erk are critical for T cell development and activation. In particular, sustained Erk signaling is required for T cell activation and effector functions, such as IL-2 production. Although Raf-1 triggers transient Erk activation, B-Raf is implicated in sustained Erk signaling after TCR stimulation. In this study, we show that B-Raf is dephosphorylated on its inhibitory serine 365 upon TCR triggering. However, it is unknown how B-Raf activation is coupled to the TCR. Using mass spectrometry, we identified protein kinase D-interacting substrate of 220 kDa (Kidins220)/ankyrin repeat-rich membrane spanning protein, mammalian target of rapamycin, Rictor, Dock2, and GM130 as novel B-Raf interaction partners. We focused on Kidins220, a protein that has been studied in neuronal cells and found that it associated with the pre-TCR, αβTCR, and γδTCR. Upon prolonged TCR stimulation, the Kidins220-TCR interaction was reduced, as demonstrated by immunoprecipitation and proximity ligation assays. We show that Kidins220 is required for TCR-induced sustained, but not transient, Erk activation. Consequently, induction of the immediate early gene products and transcription factors c-Fos and Erg-1 was blocked, and upregulation of the activation markers CD69, IL-2, and IFN-γ was reduced. Further, Kidins220 was required for optimal calcium signaling. In conclusion, we describe Kidins220 as a novel TCR-interacting protein that couples B-Raf to the TCR. Kidins220 is mandatory for sustained Erk signaling; thus, it is crucial for TCR-mediated T cell activation. Sorafenib (SO), a multikinase-targeted inhibitor in clinical trials for papillary and anaplastic cancers, shows limited efficacy with moderate toxicity. Withaferin A (WA), a natural withanolide, shows potent preclinical anticancer activity in thyroid cancers through multiple cytotoxic mechanisms including heat-shock protein inhibition. We hypothesized that combination therapy (WA + SO) would have a synergistic effect against anaplastic and papillary carcinoma cells at lower sorafenib doses. Human papillary (BCPAP) and anaplastic (SW1736) thyroid cancer cell lines were evaluated after treatment with SO, WA, or their combination at different doses. Proliferation was measured by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium and trypan blue exclusion; apoptosis and cell-cycle arrest was measured by flow cytometry. Western analysis confirmed apoptosis (Poly ADP ribose polymerase [PARP] and caspase-3 cleavage) and Raf inhibition. Experiments were repeated in triplicate and were evaluated statistically with significance set at a P value of less than .05. The concentration of drug at which 50% of the cells are inhibited (IC(50)) in BCPAP were 6.3 μmol/L (SO), .155 μmol/L (WA), and .055 μmol/L (IC(50)WA + 50% IC(50)SO), whereas in SW1736 cells the concentration was 7.6 μmol/L (SO), 2.5 μmol/L (WA), and 1.4 μmol/L (IC(50)WA + 50% IC(50)SO). Combination (WA + SO) at IC(50) decreased cell viability to 19% (from 50% individually). Apoptosis levels on flow cytometry in anaplastic cells increased significantly from 0% to 2% (SO or WA alone) to 89% (combo at IC(50), P < .001). Combination therapy apoptosis (PARP cleavage and caspase-3 inactivation) and BRAF/Raf-1 down-regulation were dose-dependent starting at 50% IC(50) levels. Cell-cycle modulation was significant with combination treatment (35% increase in G2 arrest at 50% IC(50)SO + WA and 70% increase at 75% IC(50)SO + WA; P < .01). Combination therapy with sorafenib + withaferin showed synergistic efficacy in papillary and anaplastic cancers in vitro with significant induction of apoptosis. This combination achieved potent anticancer activity with lower overall doses of sorafenib, indicating a potential strategy to decrease sorafenib toxicity in future translational studies. Anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) is a rare but highly aggressive malignancy with a median survival of 3-5 months. The BRAF oncogene is mutated to its active form in up to 24% of ATC cases. Sorafenib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that acts on the RAF-1 serine/threonine kinase. In preclinical mouse models, sorafenib inhibits the growth of ATC xenografts and improves survival. No study of sorafenib in ATC has been conducted. We conducted a multi-institutional phase II trial of sorafenib in patients with ATC who had failed up to two previous therapies. The primary endpoint of the trial was the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST)-defined imaging response rate. Twenty patients with ATC were treated with sorafenib 400 mg twice daily. Two of the 20 patients had a partial response (10%) and an additional 5 of 20 (25%) had stable disease. The duration of response in the two responders was 10 and 27 months, respectively. For the patients with stable disease, the median duration was 4 months (range 3-11 months). The overall median progression-free survival was 1.9 months with a median and a 1-year survival of 3.9 months and 20%, respectively. Toxicity was manageable and as previously described for sorafenib, including hypertension and skin rash. Sorafenib has activity in ATC, but at a low frequency and similar to our previous experience with fosbretabulin. One patient with a response had previously progressed on fosbretabulin. Toxicities were both predictable and manageable. Ras-driven tumorigenesis is assumed to depend on Raf for ERK activation and proliferation; yet, an in vivo requirement for Raf as MEK/ERK activator in this setting has not been demonstrated to date. Here, we show that epidermis-restricted B-Raf ablation restrains the onset and stops the progression of established Ras-driven tumors by limiting MEK/ERK activation and proliferation. Concomitant elimination of B-Raf and Raf-1 enforces the abrupt regression of established tumors owing to the decrease in ERK activation and proliferation caused by B-Raf ablation combined with the ERK-independent increase in Rho-dependent kinase (Rok) signaling and differentiation triggered by Raf-1 inactivation. Thus, B-Raf and Raf-1 have non-redundant functions in Ras-driven tumorigenesis. Of note, Raf kinase inhibitors achieve impressive results in melanomas harboring oncogenic BRAF, but are ineffective against Ras-driven tumors; moreover, therapy-related skin tumors driven by a paradox ERK activation as well as primary and acquired resistance have been reported. Our results suggest that therapies targeting both Raf kinase-dependent and -independent pathways may be effective against a broader range of malignancies and reduce the risks of adverse effects and/or resistance. Regorafenib (BAY 73-4506) is a novel, orally active, diphenylurea multikinase inhibitor of VEGFR1-3, c-KIT, TIE-2, PDGFR-β, FGFR-1, RET, RAF-1, BRAF and p38 MAP kinase. This review covers the preclinical development of regorafenib as well as the pivotal Phase I studies. The safety profile of regorafenib is discussed in context with other oral multikinase inhibitors bearing a similar target profile. Current clinical developments, especially in colorectal cancer (CRC) and gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), are addressed. Open questions on clinically useful biomarkers predicting response with regard to a personalized therapy strategy are also being discussed. Regorafenib (BAY 73-4506) is a novel, orally active multikinase inhibitor that is well tolerated in preclinical mouse models as well as clinically according to Phase I - III trials performed. The toxicity profile is comparable with other oral multikinase inhibitors with similar molecular targets. Regorafenib has promising antineoplastic activity in various tumor types. Two large, randomized Phase III pivotal registration studies in patients with GIST and CRC, respectively, already completed enrolment, with final results being awaited. Further extensive clinical development as a single agent or in combination with standard chemotherapeutic agents in various malignant tumors is ongoing. Moreover, regorafenib has recently been granted Orphan Drug Status for GIST tumors and 'fast track' status for both GIST and CRC by the FDA. The dimerisation of Raf kinases involves a central cluster within the kinase domain, the dimer interface (DIF). Yet, the importance of the DIF for the signalling potential of wild-type B-Raf (B-Raf(wt)) and its oncogenic counterparts remains unknown. Here, we show that the DIF plays a pivotal role for the activity of B-Raf(wt) and several of its gain-of-function (g-o-f) mutants. In contrast, the B-Raf(V600E), B-Raf(insT) and B-Raf(G469A) oncoproteins are remarkably resistant to mutations in the DIF. However, compared with B-Raf(wt), B-Raf(V600E) displays extended protomer contacts, increased homodimerisation and incorporation into larger protein complexes. In contrast, B-Raf(wt) and Raf-1(wt) mediated signalling triggered by oncogenic Ras as well as the paradoxical activation of Raf-1 by kinase-inactivated B-Raf require an intact DIF. Surprisingly, the B-Raf DIF is not required for dimerisation between Raf-1 and B-Raf, which was inactivated by the D594A mutation, sorafenib or PLX4720. This suggests that paradoxical MEK/ERK activation represents a two-step mechanism consisting of dimerisation and DIF-dependent transactivation. Our data further implicate the Raf DIF as a potential target against Ras-driven Raf-mediated (paradoxical) ERK activation. Heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) is differentially expressed in tumor cells including melanoma and involved in proper folding, stabilization and regulation of cellular proteins. We investigated a novobiocin-derived Hsp90 C-terminal inhibitor, KU135, for anti-proliferative effects in melanoma cells. The results indicate that KU135 reduced cell viability and cell proliferation in melanoma cells and IC(50) values for A735(DRO), M14(NPA), B16F10 and SKMEL28 cells were 0.82, 0.92, 1.33 and 1.30μM respectively. KU135 induced a more potent anti-proliferative effect in most melanoma cells versus N-terminal Hsp90 inhibitor 17AAG. KU135 induced apoptosis in melanoma cells, as indicated by annexin V/PI staining, reduction in the mitochondrial membrane potential, mitochondrial cytochrome C release and caspase 3 activation. KU135 reduced levels of Hsp90 client proteins Akt, BRAF, RAF-1, cyclin B and cdc25. Additionally, levels of Hsp90 and Hsp70 did not increase, while the levels of phosphorylated HSF1 levels decreased. KU135 induced strong G2/M cell cycle arrest, associated with decreased expression of cdc25c, cyclin B and increased phosphorylation of cdc25c. These finding show that KU135 reduced cell survival, proliferation, and induces apoptosis in melanoma cells. We suggest that KU135 may be a potential candidate for cancer therapy against melanoma. RKIP has been shown to regulate the RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK kinase cascade acting as modulator of apoptosis and metastasis in prostate cancer. Our goal was to examine the expression of the RAF (A-RAF, B-RAF and RAF-1) and RKIP genes in urinary bladder cancer. Microarray analysis and qPCR was employed to investigate the expression of RAF and RKIP, in 30 patients with transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the urinary bladder vs. the corresponding levels of adjacent normal tissue. Computational analysis was also performed on Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets, to unravel differences in the expression of RAF or RKIP between tumor and control samples, and between superficial and muscle invasive tumors. Microarray analysis revealed >2-fold expression of BRAF and RKIP in T2, T3, grade III tumors vs. controls. B-RAF over-expression was verified by qPCR in pT1, grade III tumors vs. their normal counterparts (p = 0.016). qPCR revealed a significant RKIP reduction in TCC vs. normal tissue (p = 0.002 and p < 0.001 for T1, grade II and Ta-T1, grade III, respectively); All RAF genes were positively correlated among each other (A-RAF/B-RAF, p = 0.003; A-RAF/RAF-1, p < 0.001; B-RAF/RAF-1, p = 0.050), whereas B-RAF was negatively correlated with RKIP in TCC (p = 0.050). Further computational analysis revealed different expression profiles for the genes of interest, among muscle invasive carcinomas, superficial TCCs, cystectomy specimens and normal tissue. The reduced RKIP mRNA levels in TCC and the elevated levels of B-RAF in pT1, grade III tumors vs. normal tissue, corroborate that these genes are involved in the pathogenesis of urinary bladder cancer. Increased activity of B-Raf has been identified in approximately 7% of human cancers. Treatment of Eker rats (Tsc-2(EK/+) ), bearing a mutation in one allele of the tuberous sclerosis-2 (Tsc-2) gene, with the nephrocarcinogen 2,3,5-tris-(glutathion-S-yl) hydroquinone (TGHQ) results in loss of the wild-type allele of Tsc-2 in renal preneoplastic lesions and tumors. These tumors have increased protein expression of B-Raf, C-Raf (Raf-1), and increased expression and activity of ERK kinase. Similar changes are observed in Raf kinases following TGHQ-mediated transformation of primary renal epithelial cells derived from Tsc-2(EK/+) rats (QTRRE cells), cells that are also null for tuberin. Herein, we utilized LC-MS/MS to identify constitutive phosphorylation of S345 and S483 in both 100- and 95-kDa forms of B-Raf in QTRRE cells. Using microRotofor liquid-phase isoelectric focusing, we identified four fractions of B-Raf that contain different post-translational modification profiles in QTRRE cells. Amplification of the kinase domain of B-Raf from QTRRE cells, outer-stripe of the outer medulla of 8-month TGHQ- or vehicle-treated Tsc-2(+/+) and Tsc-2(EK/+) rats, as well as tumors excised from 8-month TGHQ-treated Tsc-2(EK/+) rats revealed three splice variants of B-Raf within the kinase domain. These splice variants differed by approximately 340, 544, and 600 bp; confirmed by sequencing. No point mutations within the kinase domain of B-Raf were identified. In addition, B-Raf/Raf-1/14-3-3 complex formation in the QTRRE cells was decreased by sorafenib, with concomitant selective decreases in p-ERK levels. Transcriptional and post-translational characterization of critical kinases, such as B-Raf, may contribute to the progression of tuberous sclerosis RCC. (246/250) © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. The Raf kinase inhibitor protein 1 (RKIP-1) was the first reported endogenous inhibitor of Raf-1-MEK-ERK/MAPK cascade, by interfering with the phosphorylation of MEK by Raf-1. However, RKIP's functions related to the MAPK signaling are far more complex. Newer data indicate that by modulating different protein-protein interactions, RKIP is involved in fine-tuning cell signaling, modulating ERK dynamics, and regulating cross talk between different pathways. Here, we describe the molecular mechanisms by which RKIP controls MAPK signaling at different levels and vice versa and its regulation via feedback phosphorylation. We also focus on several discrepancies and questions that remain, such as the RKIP binding regulation by Raf-1 N-region phosphorylation, the possible B-Raf inhibition, and the effects of RKIP-lipid binding. We also describe how RKIP's role as key signaling modulator of many cell fate decisions leads to the fact that fine control of RKIP activity and regulation is crucial to avoid pathological processes, such as metastasis, pulmonary arterial hypertension, and heart failure. We previously reported that the upregulation of mortalin, an Hsp70 family chaperone, is important for B-Raf(V600E) tumor cells to bypass p21(CIP1) expression, which is activated as a tumor-suppressive mechanism in response to aberrant MEK/ERK activation (Wu et al., 2013). Interestingly, mortalin depletion induced p21(CIP1) transcription not only in wild-type TP53 but also in TP53-mutated B-Raf(V600E) cancer cells, suggesting the presence of an additional mechanism for p21(CIP1) regulation. In the present study, using luciferase reporter truncation analysis in a TP53-mutated B-Raf(V600E) cancer cell line, SK-MEL28, we identified a proximal p21(CIP1) promoter region responsive to mortalin depletion. Interestingly, when Sp1-like cis-elements in this promoter region were mutagenized, the p21(CIP1) promoter luciferase reporter was no longer responsive to mortalin depletion. Consistent with this, our ChIP analysis revealed that mortalin knockdown could induce Sp1 binding to p21(CIP1) promoter in a MEK/ERK-dependent manner. Moreover, RNA interference of Sp1 substantially attenuated p21(CIP1) expression induced by mortalin depletion in SK-MEL28 cells. Consistent with this observation in SK-MEL28 cells, Sp1 was necessary for the tamoxifen-regulated ∆Raf-1:ER to induce p21(CIP1) transcription in U251 cells, in which TP53 is mutated. However, in contrast, Sp1 was not necessary for ∆Raf-1:ER to induce p21(CIP1) transcription in LNCaP cells, in which TP53 is wild type. These data suggest that Sp1 may address TP53-independent p21(CIP1) transcription in Raf/MEK/ERK-activated cancer cells and that its requirement in Raf/MEK/ERK-induced p21(CIP1) transcription is subject to TP53 status. This study evaluates the geographic expression pattern of Raf-1 Kinase Inhibitor Protein (RKIP) in colorectal cancer (CRC) in correlation with clinicopathological and molecular features, markers of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and survival outcome. Whole-tissue sections of 220 well-characterised CRCs were immunostained for RKIP. NF-κB and E-Cadherin expression was assessed using a matched multi-punch tissue microarray. Analysis of mismatch repair (MMR) protein expression, B-Raf and KRAS mutations was performed. RKIP expression in normal mucosa, tumour centre, invasion front and tumour buds was each assessed for clinical relevance. RKIP was diffusely expressed in normal mucosa and progressively lost towards tumour centre and front (P<0.0001). Only 0.9% of tumour buds were RKIP-positive. In the tumour centre, RKIP deficiency predicted metastatic disease (P=0.0307), vascular invasion (P=0.0506), tumour budding (P=0.0112) and an invasive border configuration (P=0.0084). Loss of RKIP correlated with NF-κB activation (P=0.0002) and loss of E-Cadherin (P<0.0001). Absence of RKIP was more common in MMR-deficient cancers (P=0.0191), while no impact of KRAS and B-Raf mutation was observed. RKIP in the tumour centre was identified as a strong prognostic indicator (HR (95% CI): 2.13 (1.27-3.56); P=0.0042) independently of TNM classification and therapy (P=0.0474). The clinical relevance of RKIP expression as an independent prognostic factor is restricted to the tumour centre. Loss of RKIP predicts features of EMT and correlates with frequent distant metastasis. Raf kinases function downstream of Ras proteins to activate the MEK-ERK pathway which is deregulated in a large number of human cancers. Raf inhibitors are clinically highly effective for the treatment of cancer and melanoma in particular, but have unexpected side effects that include a paradoxical activation of the ERK pathway. These effects seem to be related to the heterodimerization of Raf-1 and B-Raf kinases. Here, we discuss the role of Raf dimerization as part of the physiological activation mechanism of Raf kinases, the mechanism of Raf dimerization induced by drugs, and the implications of dimerization for drug therapies targeting Raf kinases. Rap1, which is closely related to ras, plays a key role in T-cell receptor (TCR)-signaling. TCR-stimulation without costimulation leads to constitutively activated rap1, which may mediate T-cell anergy via inhibition of ras-dependent induction of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK). This activation is mediated by a second protein kinase b-Raf. Rap1-GTP is thought to activate ERK in a ras-independent manner by binding b-raf. Generally, T cells do not express b-raf while they express the adaptor protein raf-1, which is usually sequestered by rap1 leading to inhibition of ras-mediated ERK activation. In this study, we demonstrate that in rap1-deficient T cells, signaling by the ERK and p38 kinases is increased following activation by different stimuli leading to increased intracellular accumulation and secretion of cytokines. In addition, in a hypersensitivity model rap1-deficient mice demonstrated reduced contact dermatitis compared to wildtype mice, demonstrating the impact of rap1-deficiency on the inflammatory response in vivo. In human cancers, B-Raf is the most frequently mutated protein kinase in the MAPK signaling cascade, making it an important therapeutic target. We recently discovered a potent and selective B-Raf inhibitor, UI-152, by using a structure-based drug design strategy. In this study, we examined whether B-Raf inhibition by UI-152 may be an effective therapeutic strategy for eliminating cancer cells transformed with v-Ha-ras (Ras-NIH 3T3). UI-152 displayed selective cytotoxicity toward Ras-NIH 3T3 cells while having little to no effect on non-transformed NIH 3T3 cells. We found that treatment with UI-152 markedly increased autophagy and, to a lesser extent, apoptosis. However, inhibition of autophagy by addition of 3-MA failed to reverse the cytotoxic effects of UI-152 on Ras-NIH 3T3 cells, demonstrating that apoptosis and autophagy can act as cooperative partners to induce growth inhibition in Ras-NIH 3T3 cells treated with UI-152. Most interestingly, cell responses to UI-152 appear to be paradoxical. Here, we showed that although UI-152 inhibited ERK, it induced B-Raf binding to Raf-1 as well as Raf-1 activation. This paradoxical activation of Raf-1 by UI-152 is likely to be coupled with the inhibition of the mTOR pathway, an intracellular signaling pathway involved in autophagy. We also showed for the first time that, in multi-drug resistant cells, the combination of UI-152 with verapamil significantly decreased cell proliferation and increased autophagy. Thus, our findings suggest that the inhibition of autophagy, in combination with UI-152, offers a more effective therapeutic strategy for v-Ha-ras-transformed cells harboring wild-type B-Raf. Despite intense interest in strategies to predict which kinase inhibitor (KI) cancer therapeutics may be associated with cardiotoxicity, current approaches are inadequate. Sorafenib is a KI of concern because it inhibits growth factor receptors and Raf-1/B-Raf, kinases that are upstream of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) and signal cardiomyocyte survival in the setting of stress. To explore the potential use of zebrafish as a preclinical model to predict cardiotoxicity and to determine whether sorafenib has associated cardiotoxicity, and, if so, define the mechanisms. We find that the zebrafish model is readily able to discriminate a KI with little or no cardiotoxicity (gefitinib) from one with demonstrated cardiotoxicity (sunitinib). Sorafenib, like sunitinib, leads to cardiomyocyte apoptosis, a reduction in total myocyte number per heart, contractile dysfunction, and ventricular dilatation in zebrafish. In cultured rat cardiomyocytes, sorafenib induces cell death. This can be rescued by adenovirus-mediated gene transfer of constitutively active MEK1, which restores ERK activity even in the presence of sorafenib. Whereas growth factor-induced activation of ERKs requires Raf, α-adrenergic agonist-induced activation of ERKs does not require it. Consequently, activation of α-adrenergic signaling markedly decreases sorafenib-induced cell death. Consistent with these in vitro data, inhibition of α-adrenergic signaling with the receptor antagonist prazosin worsens sorafenib-induced cardiomyopathy in zebrafish. Zebrafish may be a valuable preclinical tool to predict cardiotoxicity. The α-adrenergic signaling pathway is an important modulator of sorafenib cardiotoxicity in vitro and in vivo and appears to act through a here-to-fore unrecognized signaling pathway downstream of α-adrenergic activation that bypasses Raf to activate ERKs. Supramolecular chemistry has recently emerged as a promising way to modulate protein functions, but devising molecules that will interact with a protein in the desired manner is difficult as many competing interactions exist in a biological environment (with solvents, salts or different sites for the target biomolecule). We now show that lysine-specific molecular tweezers bind to a 14-3-3 adapter protein and modulate its interaction with partner proteins. The tweezers inhibit binding between the 14-3-3 protein and two partner proteins--a phosphorylated (C-Raf) protein and an unphosphorylated one (ExoS)--in a concentration-dependent manner. Protein crystallography shows that this effect arises from the binding of the tweezers to a single surface-exposed lysine (Lys214) of the 14-3-3 protein in the proximity of its central channel, which normally binds the partner proteins. A combination of structural analysis and computer simulations provides rules for the tweezers' binding preferences, thus allowing us to predict their influence on this type of protein-protein interactions. 1. Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are persistent environmental pollutants that disrupt hepatic xenobiotic and intermediary metabolism, leading to metabolic syndrome and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). 2. Since phenobarbital indirectly activates Constitutive Androstane Receptor (CAR) by antagonizing growth factor binding to the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), we hypothesised that PCBs may also diminish EGFR signaling. 3. The effects of the PCB mixture Aroclor 1260 on the protein phosphorylation cascade triggered by EGFR activation were determined in murine (in vitro and in vivo) and human models (in vitro). EGFR tyrosine residue phosphorylation was decreased by PCBs in all models tested. 4. The IC50 values for Aroclor 1260 concentrations that decreased Y1173 phosphorylation of EGFR were similar in murine AML-12 and human HepG2 cells (∼2-4 μg/mL). Both dioxin and non-dioxin-like PCB congeners decreased EGFR phosphorylation in cell culture. 5. PCB treatment reduced phosphorylation of downstream EGFR effectors including Akt and mTOR, as well as other phosphoprotein targets including STAT3 and c-RAF in vivo. 6. PCBs diminish EGFR signaling in human and murine hepatocyte models and may dysregulate critical phosphoprotein regulators of energy metabolism and nutrition, providing a new mechanism of action in environmental diseases. Noonan spectrum disorders (NSDs) occur in 1:1000-2500 live births. Currently, there are no guidelines for prenatal molecular genetic testing for NSDs. Recent studies recommend prenatal testing for NSDs when ultrasonography detects two or more associated abnormalities. A stronger association between ultrasound findings and NSDs would enable more informed prenatal genetic testing. A total of 212 newborns (0-12 weeks) with prenatal ultrasound findings and a clinical suspicion of a NSD were referred for molecular genetic testing. Of these, 159/212 newborns tested had a single ultrasound abnormality and 53/212 newborns had two or more. Testing was performed by either a microarray-based resequencing assay or next generation sequencing of RAS/MAPK pathway genes associated with NSDs. Prenatal ultrasound findings in positive and negative cases were compared. A disease-causing variant was identified in 21.7% (46/212) of newborns tested. Of these positive cases, 67.4% (31/46) had only one ultrasound abnormality reported. The rate of detecting a disease-causing variant in cases with one ultrasound finding was 19.5% (31/159), which was not significantly different (p-value = 0.36) than that in cases with two or more ultrasound findings (28.3%; 15/53). Prenatal molecular testing for NSDs should be considered even in the presence of a single associated abnormal ultrasound finding. © 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. The solute carrier 30A (SLC30A) family of zinc exporters transports zinc into the lumen of intracellular organelles in order to prevent zinc toxicity. We reported that formation of tyrosine dimers is required for ZnT3 (zinc transporter 3) zinc transport activity and targeting to synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs) in PC12 cells and the formation of ZnT3/ZnT10 heterodimers. Here, we focused on ZnT10 to determine the role of heterodimerization in the sorting of ZnTs in the endolysosomal pathway. Using cell fractionation, immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence approaches, we found that ZnT10 resides in transferrin receptor and Rab5-positive endosomes and forms covalent heterodimers and oligomers with ZnT2, ZnT3 and ZnT4. The interaction of ZnT10 with ZnT3, mediated by dityrosine bonds, was unable to target ZnT10 into SLMVs in vitro or into synaptic vesicles isolated from mouse brain in vivo. However, ZnT3/ZnT10 heterodimers regulate epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R) signaling by increasing the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2), but not EGF-R, C-Raf or Akt phosphorylation in response to EGF. Further, mutation of tyrosine 4 in ZnT10 reduced ZnT3/ZnT10 dityrosine-mediated heterodimerization and zinc transport, as well as MEK and ERK1/2 phosphorylation, which were also reduced by the zinc chelator TPEN. Phosphorylation of these kinases is likely to occur in the cytosol as no differences in phosphorylation were observed in membrane fractions of control and ZnT3/ZnT10-expressing cells. We propose that ZnT10 plays a role in signal transduction, which is mediated by homo and heterodimerization with other ZnTs. CLL is a disease characterized by chromosomal deletions, acquired copy number changes and aneuploidy. Recent studies have shown that overexpression of Heat Shock Factor (HSF) 1 in aneuploid tumor cells can overcome deficiencies in heat shock protein (HSP) 90-mediated protein folding and restore protein homeostasis. Interestingly, several independent studies have demonstrated that HSF1 expression and activity also affects the chaperoning of HSP90 kinase clients, although the mechanism underlying this observation is unclear. Here, we determined how HSF1 regulates HSP90 function using CLL as a model system. We report that HSF1 is overexpressed in CLL and treatment with triptolide (a small molecule inhibitor of HSF1) induces apoptosis in cultured and primary CLL B-cells. We demonstrate that knockdown of HSF1 or its inhibition with triptolide results in the reduced association of HSP90 with its kinase co-chaperone cell division cycle 37 (CDC37), leading to the partial depletion of HSP90 client kinases, Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase (BTK), c-RAF and cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (CDK4). Treatment with triptolide or HSF1 knockdown disrupts the cytosolic complex between HSF1, p97, HSP90 and the HSP90 deacetylase- Histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6). Consequently, HSF1 inhibition results in HSP90 acetylation and abrogation of its chaperone function. Finally, tail vein injection of Mec-1 cells into Rag2-/-IL2Rγc-/- mice followed by treatment with minnelide (a pro-drug of triptolide), reduced leukemia, increased survival and attenuated HSP90-dependent survival signaling in vivo. In conclusion, our study provides a strong rationale to target HSF1 and test the activity of minnelide against human CLL. Sorafenib (Nexavar), is a multikinase inhibitor, which has demonstrated both antiproliferative and antiangiogenic properties in vitro and in vivo, inhibiting the activity of targets present in the tumoral cells (c-RAF [proto-oncogene serine/threonine-protein kinase], BRAF, (V600E)BRAF, c-KIT, and FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3) and in tumor vessels (c-RAF, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor [VEGFR]-2, VEGFR-3, and platelet-derived growth factor receptor β). Sorafenib was initially approved for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma and advanced renal cell carcinoma. Experimental studies have demonstrated that sorafenib has both antiproliferative and antiangiogenic properties in vitro and in vivo, against thyroid cancer cells. Furthermore, several completed (or ongoing) studies have evaluated the long-term efficacy and tolerability of sorafenib in patients with papillary, follicular and medullary aggressive thyroid cancer. The results of the different studies showed good clinical responses and stabilization of the disease and suggested that sorafenib is a promising therapeutic option in patients with advanced thyroid cancer that is not responsive to traditional therapeutic strategies (such as radioiodine). Currently, USA Food and Drug Administration has approved the use of sorafenib for metastatic differentiated thyroid cancer. The multivariate nature of cancer necessitates multi-targeted therapy, and kinase inhibitors account for a vast majority of approved cancer therapeutics. While acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) patients are highly responsive to retinoic acid (RA) therapy, kinase inhibitors have been gaining momentum as co-treatments with RA for non-APL acute myeloid leukemia (AML) differentiation therapies, especially as a means to treat relapsed or refractory AML patients. In this study GW5074 (a c-Raf inhibitor) and PP2 (a Src-family kinase inhibitor) enhanced RA-induced maturation of t(15;17)-negative myeloblastic leukemia cells and rescued response in RA-resistant cells. PD98059 (a MEK inhibitor) and Akti-1/2 (an Akt inhibitor) were less effective, but did tend to promote maturation-uncoupled G1/G0 arrest, while wortmannin (a PI3K inhibitor) did not enhance differentiation surface marker expression or growth arrest. PD98059 and Akti-1/2 did not enhance differentiation markers and have potential, antagonistic off-targets effects on the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), but neither could the AhR agonist 6-formylindolo(3,2-b)carbazole (FICZ) rescue differentiation events in the RA-resistant cells. GW5074 rescued early CD38 expression in RA-resistant cells exhibiting an early block in differentiation before CD38 expression, while for RA-resistant cells with differentiation blocked later, PP2 rescued the later differentiation marker CD11b; but surprisingly, the combination of the two was not synergistic. Kinases c-Raf, Src-family kinases Lyn and Fgr, and PI3K display highly correlated signaling changes during RA treatment, while activation of traditional downstream targets (Akt, MEK/ERK), and even the surface marker CD38, were poorly correlated with c-Raf or Lyn during differentiation. This suggests that an interrelated kinase module involving c-Raf, PI3K, Lyn and perhaps Fgr functions in a nontraditional way during RA-induced maturation or during rescue of RA induction therapy using inhibitor co-treatment in RA-resistant leukemia cells. para‑Phenylenediamine (p‑PD) is a potential carcinogen, and widely used in marketed hair dye formulations. In the present study, the role of the protein tyrosine kinase (PTK)/Ras/Raf/c‑Jun N‑terminal kinase (JNK) and phosphoinositide 3‑kinase (PI3k)/protein kinase B (Akt) pathways on the growth of NRK‑52E cells was investigated. The results demonstrated that p‑PD reduced cell viability in a dose‑dependent manner. The cell death due to apoptosis was confirmed by cell cycle analysis and an Annexin‑V‑fluorescein isothiocyanate binding assay. Subsequent to staining with 2',7'‑dichlorofluorescin diacetate, the treated cells demonstrated a significant increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation compared with the controls. The effects of p‑PD on the signalling pathways were analysed by western blotting. p‑PD‑treated cells exhibited an upregulated phospho‑stress‑activated protein kinase/JNK protein expression level and downregulated Ras and Raf protein expression levels; however, Akt, Bcl‑2, Bcl‑XL and Bad protein expression levels were not significantly altered compared with the control. In conclusion, p‑PD induced apoptosis by a PTK/Ras/Raf/JNK‑dependent pathway and was independent of the PI3K/Akt pathway in NRK‑52E cells. Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is triggered by the constitutively activated BCR-ABL oncoprotein and multiple downstream signaling pathways, including the Raf/MEK/ERK, Akt/mTOR, SRC, and STAT5 pathways. The BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib is the standard treatment for CML. However, the development of imatinib resistance has become a new challenge for CML treatment. Here, we investigated the expression levels of the signaling pathways to explore the cause of imatinib resistance and seek new reversing drugs. Our results showed that abnormal activation of the BCR-ABL-independent Lyn/ERK signaling pathway was involved in imatinib-resistance of K562R cells. Furthermore, p-Lyn and p-ERK were up-regulated after treatment with imatinib alone. However, U0126, a MEK1/2 inhibitor, could counteract the up-regulation induced by imatinib, and the combination of imatinib and U0126 could overcome the resistance to imatinib in K562R cells. In conclusion, our studies suggest that the combination of imatinib and an inhibitor of the ERK signaling pathway may be effective in imatinib-resistant CML patients. Raf kinases are important components of the Ras-Raf-Mek-Erk pathway and also cross-talk with other signaling pathways. Araf kinase has been demonstrated to inhibit TGF-β/Smad2 signaling by directly phosphorylating and accelerating degradation of activated Smad2. In this study, we show that the araf gene expresses in zebrafish embryos to produce a shorter transcript variant, araf-tv2, in addition to the full-length variant araf-tv1. araf-tv2 is predicted to encode a C-terminally truncated peptide without the kinase activity domain. Araf-tv2 can physically associate with Araf-tv1 but does not antagonize the inhibitory effect of Araf-tv1 on TGF-β/Smad2 signaling. Instead, Araf-tv2 interacts strongly with Kras and Nras, ultimately blocking MAPK activation by these Ras proteins. In zebrafish embryos, overexpression of araf-tv2 is sufficient to inhibit Fgf/Ras-promoted Erk activation, mesodermal induction, dorsal development, and neuroectodermal posteriorization. Therefore, different isoforms of Araf may participate in similar developmental processes but by regulating different signaling pathways. The RAF proteins are cytosolic protein kinases that regulate cell responses to extracellular signals. There are three RAF proteins in cells, ARAF, BRAF and CRAF, and recent studies have shown that the formation of complexes by these different isoforms has an important role in their activation, particularly in response to RAF inhibitors. Here, we investigated the role of ARAF in cancer cell signaling and examined the role of ARAF in mediating paradoxical activation of the MAPK pathway in cells treated with RAF inhibitors. We show that two mutations that occur in ARAF in cancer inactivate the kinase. We also show that ARAF is not functionally redundant with CRAF and cannot substitute for CRAF downstream of RAS. We further show that ARAF binds to and is activated by BRAF and that ARAF also forms complexes with CRAF. Critically, ARAF seems to stabilize BRAF:CRAF complexes in cells treated with RAF inhibitors and thereby regulate cell signaling in a subtle manner to ensure signaling efficiency. Cancers arise because of the accumulation of mutations in critical genes that alter normal programs of cell proliferation, differentiation, and death. The RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK-MAP kinase pathway mediates cellular responses to growth signals. RAS is mutated to an oncogenic form in approximately 15% of human cancer. The three RAF genes code for cytoplasmic serine/threonine kinases that are regulated by binding RAS. ARAF and c-RAF are infrequently mutated in human cancer. However, BRAF is mutated in a wide range of human cancers. Most mutations are within the kinase domain, with a single amino acid substitution (V600E) accounting for most mutations. In human papillary thyroid cancers (PTCs), mutations of RET/PTC, NTRK, RAS, or BRAF are found in about two thirds of cases with practically no overlap, providing genetic evidence that constitutive signaling along RET-RAS-BRAF-MAPK is key to their development. The requirement for BRAF in RET/PTC-mediated MAPK activation and gene expression has not been tested functionally. There are three RAF isoforms: ARAF, BRAF, and CRAF. Compared with the others, ARAF is a much weaker stimulator of MAPK. To determine the key RAF isoform mediating RET/PTC-induced ERK phosphorylation, we stably transfected doxycycline-inducible RET/PTC3-expressing thyroid PCCL3 cells with small interfering RNA vectors to induce selective knockdown of BRAF or CRAF. Conditional RET/PTC3 expression induced comparable ERK phosphorylation in CRAF knockdown and control cells but negligible ERK phosphorylation in BRAF knockdown cells. Selective knockdown of BRAF prevented RET/PTC-dependent down-regulation of the sodium iodide symporter, a gene that confers key biological effects of RET/PTC in PTCs. Moreover, microarray analysis revealed numerous RET/PTC-regulated genes showing requirement of BRAF for appropriate expression. These data indicate that BRAF is required for RET/PTC-induced MAPK activation in thyroid cells and support the notion that BRAF inactivation may be an attractive target for PTCs. Tyrosine kinase growth factor receptors and Ras/Raf/MEK/MAPK signalling have been implicated in the suppression as well as augmentation of programmed cell death. In addition, a Ras-independent role for Raf as a suppressor of programmed cell death has been suggested by the recent finding that Craf1 interacts with members of the Bcl-2 family at mitochondrial membranes. However, genetic studies of C. elegans and Drosophila, as well as the targeted mutagenesis of the murine Araf gene, have failed to support such a role. Here we show that mice with a targeted disruption in the Braf gene die of vascular defects during mid-gestation. Braf -/- embryos, unlike Araf -/- or Craf1 -/- embryos (L.W. et al., unpublished), show an increased number of endothelial precursor cells, dramatically enlarged blood vessels and apoptotic death of differentiated endothelial cells. These results establish Braf as a critical signalling factor in the formation of the vascular system and provide the first genetic evidence for an essential role of Raf gene in the regulation of programmed cell death. The Ras-Raf-MEK-MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase)-signaling pathway plays a key role in the regulation of many cellular functions, including cell proliferation, differentiation and transformation, by transmitting signals from membrane receptors to various cytoplasmic and nuclear targets. One of the key components of this pathway is the serine/threonine protein kinase, Raf. The Raf family kinases (A-Raf, B-Raf and C-Raf) have been intensively studied since being identified in the early 1980s as retroviral oncogenes, especially with respect to the discovery of activating mutations of B-Raf in a large number of tumors which led to intensified efforts to develop drugs targeting Raf kinases. This also resulted in a rapid increase in our knowledge of the biological functions of the B-Raf and C-Raf isoforms, which may in turn be contrasted with the little that is known about A-Raf. The biological functions of A-Raf remain mysterious, although it appears to share some of the basic properties of the other two isoforms. Recently, emerging evidence has begun to reveal the functions of A-Raf, of which some are kinase-independent. These include the inhibition of apoptosis by binding to MST2, acting as safeguard against oncogenic transformation by suppressing extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK) activation and playing a role in resistance to Raf inhibitors. In this review, we discuss the regulation of A-Raf protein expression, and the roles of A-Raf in apoptosis and cancer, with a special focus on its role in resistance to Raf inhibitors. We also describe the scaffold functions of A-Raf and summarize the unexpected complexity of Raf signaling. An increasing number of studies report that the Ras/Raf/extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) signaling pathway has a death-promoting apoptotic function in neural cells. We hypothesized that the Ras/Raf/ERK1/2 signaling pathway may be abnormally regulated in rat injured spinal cord models. The weight drop method was used to establish rat spinal cord injury at T9. Western blot analysis and immunohistochemical staining revealed Ras expression was dramatically elevated, and the phosphorylations of A-Raf, B-Raf and C-Raf were all upregulated in the injured spinal cord. Both mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1/2 and ERK1/2, which belong to the Ras/Raf signaling kinases, were upregulated. These results indicate that Ras/Raf/ERK1/2 signaling may be upregulated in injured spinal cord and are involved in recovery after spinal cord injury. Aberrant expression of Cancer Osaka Thyroid Oncogene mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 8 (COT) (MAP3K8) is a driver of resistance to B-RAF inhibition. However, the de novo expression and clinical implications of COT in papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) have not been investigated.The aim of this study is to investigate the expression of A-, B-, C-RAF, and COT in PTC (n = 167) and analyze the clinical implications of aberrant expression of these genes.Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and immunohistochemical staining (IHC) were performed on primary thyroid cancers. Expression of COT was compared with clinicopathological characteristics including recurrence-free survival. Datasets from public repository (NCBI) were subjected to Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA).qPCR data showed that the relative mRNA expression of A-, B-, C-RAF and COT of PTC were higher than normal tissues (all P < 0.01). In addition, the expression of COT mRNA in PTC showed positive correlation with A- (r = 0.4083, P < 0.001), B- (r = 0.2773, P = 0.0003), and C-RAF (r = 0.5954, P < 0.001). The mRNA expressions of A-, B,- and C-RAF were also correlated with each other (all P < 0.001). In IHC, the staining intensities of B-RAF and COT were higher in PTC than in normal tissue (P < 0.001). Interestingly, moderate-to-strong staining intensities of B-RAF and COT were more frequent in B-RAF-positive PTC (P < 0.001, P = 0.013, respectively). In addition, aberrant expression of COT was related to old age at initial diagnosis (P = 0.045) and higher recurrence rate (P = 0.025). In multivariate analysis, tumor recurrence was persistently associated with moderate-to-strong staining of COT after adjusting for age, sex, extrathyroidal extension, multifocality, T-stage, N-stage, TNM stage, and B-RAF mutation (odds ratio, 4.662; 95% confidence interval 1.066 - 21.609; P = 0.045). Moreover, moderate-to-strong COT expression in PTC was associated with shorter recurrence-free survival (mean follow-up duration, 14.2 ± 4.1 years; P = 0.0403). GSEA indicated that gene sets related to B-RAF-RAS (P < 0.0001, false discovery rate [FDR] q-value = 0.000) and thyroid differentiation (P = 0.048, FDR q-value = 0.05) scores were enriched in lower COT expression group and gene sets such as T-cell receptor signaling pathway and Toll-like receptor signaling pathway are coordinately upregulated in higher COT expression group (both, P < 0.0001, FDR q-value = 0.000).Aberrant expression of A-, B-, and C-RAF, and COT is frequent in PTC; increased expression of COT is correlated with recurrence of PTC. Extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) have been implicated to be dispensable for self-renewal of mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells, and simultaneous inhibition of both ERK signaling and glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) not only allows mouse ES cells to self-renew independent of extracellular stimuli but also enables more efficient derivation of naïve ES cells from mouse and rat strains. Interestingly, some ERKs stay active in mouse ES cells which are maintained in regular medium containing leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP). Yet, the upstream signaling for ERK activation and their roles in mouse ES cells, other than promoting or priming differentiation, have not been determined. Here we found that mouse ES cells express three forms of Raf kinases, A-Raf, B-Raf, and C-Raf. Knocking-down each single Raf member failed to affect the sustained ERK activity, neither did A-Raf and B-Raf double knockdown or B-Raf and C-Raf double knockdown change it in ES cells. Interestingly, B-Raf and C-Raf double knockdown, not A-Raf and B-Raf knockdown, inhibited the maximal ERK activation induced by LIF, concomitant with the slower growth of ES cells. On the other hand, A-Raf, B-Raf, and C-Raf triple knockdown markedly inhibited both the maximal and sustained ERK activity in ES cells. Moreover, Raf triple knockdown, similar to the treatment of U-0126, an MEK inhibitor, significantly inhibited the survival and proliferation of ES cells, thereby compromising the colony propagation of mouse ES cells. In summary, our data demonstrate that all three Raf members are required for ERK activation in mouse ES cells and are involved in growth and survival of mouse ES cells. One-third of all human cancers harbor somatic RAS mutations. This leads to aberrant activation of downstream signaling pathways involving the RAF kinases. Current ATP-competitive RAF inhibitors are active in cancers with somatic RAF mutations, such as BRAF(V600) mutant melanomas. However, they paradoxically promote the growth of RAS mutant tumors, partly due to the complex interplay between different homo- and heterodimers of A-RAF, B-RAF, and C-RAF. Based on pathway analysis and structure-guided compound identification, we describe the natural product cotylenin-A (CN-A) as stabilizer of the physical interaction of C-RAF with 14-3-3 proteins. CN-A binds to inhibitory 14-3-3 interaction sites of C-RAF, pSer233, and pSer259, but not to the activating interaction site, pSer621. While CN-A alone is inactive in RAS mutant cancer models, combined treatment with CN-A and an anti-EGFR antibody synergistically suppresses tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. This defines a novel pharmacologic strategy for treatment of RAS mutant cancers. Advanced stages of papillary and anaplastic thyroid cancer represent a highly aggressive subset, in which there are currently few effective therapies. We and others have recently demonstrated that c-SRC is a key mediator of growth, invasion, and metastasis, and therefore represents a promising therapeutic target in thyroid cancer. However, clinically, Src inhibitor efficacy has been limited, and therefore further insights are needed to define resistance mechanisms and determine rational combination therapies. We have generated four thyroid cancer cell lines with a greater than 30-fold increase in acquired resistance to the Src inhibitor dasatinib. Upon acquisition of dasatinib resistance, the two RAS-mutant cell lines acquired the c-SRC gatekeeper mutation (T341M), whereas the two BRAF-mutant cell lines did not. Accordingly, Src signaling was refractory to dasatinib treatment in the RAS-mutant dasatinib-resistant cell lines. Interestingly, activation of the MAPK pathway was increased in all four of the dasatinib-resistant cell lines, likely due to B-Raf and c-Raf dimerization. Furthermore, MAP2K1/MAP2K2 (MEK1/2) inhibition restored sensitivity in all four of the dasatinib-resistant cell lines, and overcame acquired resistance to dasatinib in the RAS-mutant Cal62 cell line, in vivo Together, these studies demonstrate that acquisition of the c-SRC gatekeeper mutation and MAPK pathway signaling play important roles in promoting resistance to the Src inhibitor dasatinib. We further demonstrate that up-front combined inhibition with dasatinib and MEK1/2 or ERK1/2 inhibitors drives synergistic inhibition of growth and induction of apoptosis, indicating that combined inhibition may overcome mechanisms of survival in response to single-agent inhibition. Mol Cancer Ther; 15(8); 1952-63. ©2016 AACR. Here, we applied optoRAF, an optogenetic tool for light-controlled clustering and activation of RAF proteins that mimics the natural occurring RAS-mediated dimerization. This versatile tool allows studying the effect on BRAF and CRAF homodimer- as well as heterodimer-induced RAF signaling. Vemurafenib and dabrafenib are two clinically approved inhibitors for BRAF that efficiently suppress the kinase activity of oncogenic BRAF (V600E). However in wild-type BRAF expressing cells, BRAF inhibitors can exert paradoxical activation of wild-type CRAF. Using optoRAF, vemurafenib was identified as paradoxical activator of BRAF and CRAF homo- and heterodimers. Dabrafenib enhanced activity of light-stimulated CRAF at low dose and inhibited CRAF signaling at high dose. Moreover, dabrafenib increased the protein level of CRAF proteins but not of BRAF proteins. Increased CRAF levels correlate with elevated RAF signaling in a dabrafenib-dependent manner, independent of light activation. The Reproducibility Project: Cancer Biology seeks to address growing concerns about reproducibility in scientific research by conducting replications of selected experiments from a number of high-profile papers in the field of cancer biology. The papers, which were published between 2010 and 2012, were selected on the basis of citations and Altmetric scores (Errington et al., 2014). This Registered Report describes the proposed replication plan of key experiments from "Kinase-dead BRAF and oncogenic RAS cooperate to drive tumor progression through CRAF" by Heidorn and colleagues, published in Cell in 2010 (Heidorn et al., 2010). The experiments to be replicated are those reported in Figures 1A, 1B, 3A, 3B, and 4D. Heidorn and colleagues report that paradoxical activation of the RAF-RAS-MEK-ERK pathway by BRAF inhibitors when applied to BRAF(WT) cells is a result of BRAF/CRAF heterodimer formation upon inactivation of BRAF kinase activity, and occurs only in the context of active RAS. The Reproducibility Project: Cancer Biology is a collaboration between the Center for Open Science and Science Exchange, and the results of the replications will be published by eLife. The recent success of vemurafenib shows the importance of selective BRAF V600E inhibition in melanoma. However, paradoxical activation by structurally diverse ATP-competitive RAF kinase inhibitors strongly suggests that selective CRAF inhibitors, not BRAF inhibitors, would be ideal for some Ras mutation cancer treatment. In this respect, we approached designing selective CRAF inhibitors starting from in silico fragment screening and synthesized a 3-carboxamido-2H-indazole-6-arylamide scaffold. Most of the compounds showed potent antiproliferative activity against the WM3629 melanoma cell line and the most promising compound, compound 10d, was found to be a potent and selective CRAF inhibitor with an IC50 value of 38.6 nM, which shows greater than 270-fold selectivity over BRAF kinase (9.45 μM). Heat shock protein (HSP)90 inhibitors have shown significant anti-tumor activities in preclinical settings in both solid and hematological tumors. We previously reported that the novel, orally available HSP90α/β inhibitor TAS-116 shows significant anti-MM activities. In this study, we further examined the combination effect of TAS-116 with a RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK signaling pathway inhibitor in RAS- or BRAF-mutated MM cell lines. TAS-116 monotherapy significantly inhibited growth of RAS-mutated MM cell lines and was associated with decreased expression of downstream target proteins of the RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK signaling pathway. Moreover, TAS-116 showed synergistic growth inhibitory effects with the farnesyltransferase inhibitor tipifarnib, the BRAF inhibitor dabrafenib, and the MEK inhibitor selumetinib. Importantly, treatment with these inhibitors paradoxically enhanced p-C-Raf, p-MEK, and p-ERK activity, which was abrogated by TAS-116. TAS-116 also enhanced dabrafenib-induced MM cytotoxicity associated with mitochondrial damage-induced apoptosis, even in the BRAF-mutated U266 MM cell line. This enhanced apoptosis in RAS-mutated MM triggered by combination treatment was observed even in the presence of bone marrow stromal cells. Taken together, our results provide the rationale for novel combination treatment with HSP90α/β inhibitor and RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK signaling pathway inhibitors to improve outcomes in patients with in RAS- or BRAF-mutated MM. Lung adenocarcinoma includes recurrent activating oncogenic mutations (EGFR, EML4-ALK, ROS1) that have been associated with response to EGFR and ALK inhibitors. Platinum-based chemotherapy is the standard therapy for non-oncodrivers population. Sorafenib is a small molecule that blocks the activation of C-RAF, B-RAF, c-KIT, FLT-3, RET, VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3 and PDGFR approved for advanced renal cell and hepatocellular carcinoma (b, c). Many studies have evaluated sorafenib in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), with different results. We present a case report of a patient with NSCLC and the BRAF G469R mutation who showed a dramatic response to sorafenib. New 2-amido and ureido quinoline derivatives substituted with 2-N-methylamido-pyridin-4-yloxy group at the 5-position of quinoline (18 final compounds) have been designed and synthesized as anticancer sorafenib congeners. Among the synthesized derivatives, fourteen compounds were selected for evaluation of their antiproliferative activity over a panel of 60 cancer cell lines at a single dose concentration of 10 μM at National Cancer Institute (NCI, USA). Four compounds, 9b-d and 9f showed promising mean growth inhibitions and thus were further tested at five-dose testing mode to determine their IC50 values. The data revealed that 2,4-difluorophenyl (9b) and 4-chloro-3-trifluoromethylphenyl (9d) urea compounds are the most active derivatives with significant efficacies and superior potencies than sorafenib in 36 and 12 cancer cell lines, respectively, belonging particularly to renal carcinoma cell (RCC), ovarian, and non small cell lung cancer (NSCL). Compound 9b and 9d were found to be six and two times more potent than sorafenib against A498 RCC line, with IC50 values of 0.42 μM and 1.36 μM, respectively. Accordingly, compound 9d was screened over a panel of 41 oncogenic kinases at a single dose concentration of 10 μM to profile its kinase inhibitory activity. Interestingly, the compound showed highly selective inhibitory activities ( 81.8% and 96.3%) against BRAF(V600E) and C-RAF kinases with IC50 values of 316 nM and 61 nM, respectively. In addition, molecular docking, cell cycle analysis, compliance to Lipinski's rule of five, and in silico toxicity assessment have been reported. Lasonolide A (LSA), a potent antitumor polyketide from the marine sponge, Forcepia sp., induces rapid and reversible protein hyperphosphorylation and premature chromosome condensation (PCC) at nanomolar concentrations independent of cyclin-dependent kinases. To identify cellular targets of LSA, we screened 2951 shRNAs targeting a pool of human kinases and phosphatases (1140 RefSeqs) to identify genes that modulate PCC in response to LSA. This led to the identification of RAF1 (C-RAF) as a mediator of LSA-induced PCC, as shRNAs against RAF1 conferred resistance to LSA. We found that LSA induced RAF1 phosphorylation on Serine 338 within minutes in human colorectal carcinoma HCT-116, ovarian carcinoma OVCAR-8, and Burkitt's lymphoma CA46 cell lines. RAF1 depletion by siRNAs attenuated LSA-induced PCC in HCT-116 and OVCAR-8 cells. Furthermore, mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) with homozygous deletion in Raf1, b
