GATA proteins are transcription factors that bind GATA DNA elements through Cys4 structural zinc-binding domains and play critical regulatory roles in neurological and urogenital development and the development of cardiac disease. To evaluate GATA proteins as potential targets for lead, spectroscopically monitored metal-binding titrations were used to measure the affinity of Pb2+ for the C-terminal zinc-binding domain from chicken GATA-1 (CF) and the double-finger domain from human GATA-1 (DF). Using this method, Pb2+ coordinating to CF and DF was directly observed through the appearance of intense bands in the near-ultraviolet region of the spectrum (250-380 nm). Absorption data collected from these experiments were best fit to a 1:1 Pb2+ -CF model and a 2:1 Pb2+ -DF model. Competition experiments using Zn2+ were used to determine the absolute affinities of Pb2+ for these proteins. These studies reveal that Pb2+ forms tight complexes with cysteine residues in the zinc-binding sites in GATA proteins, beta1Pb = 6.4 (+/- 2.0) x 10(9) M(-1) for CF and beta2 = 6.3 (+/- 6.3) x 10(19) M(-2) for Pb(2+)2-DF, and within an order of magnitude of the affinity of Zn2+ for these proteins. Furthermore, Pb2+ was able to displace bound Zn2+ from CF and DF. Upon addition of Pb2+, GATA shows a decreased ability to bind to DNA and subsequently activate transcription. Therefore, the DNA binding and transcriptional activity of GATA proteins are most likely to be targeted by Pb2+ in cells and tissues that sequester Pb2+ in vivo, which include the brain and the heart.
Vertebrate GATA proteins regulate processes that are vital to development, and each possesses two tandem GATA finger domains: an N-terminal GATA finger and a C-terminal GATA finger. These GATA fingers require Zn(2+) to fold, to bind DNA recognition elements, and to regulate transcription. While the GATA-1 C-terminal finger is necessary and sufficient to bind to single GATA DNA sites, the N-terminal finger interacts with DNA such that the double finger unit (DF domain) has a binding and transactivation profile that is tuned by the DNA-binding site. Co(2+) was used as a spectroscopic probe in a series of competition titrations to determine the affinity of Co(2+) and Zn(2+) for the C-terminal finger from chicken GATA-1 and the double finger from human GATA-1 (referred to in this report as CF and DF). For CF, these experiments yielded K(b)(Co) = 1.0 (+/-1.3) x 10(7) M(-1) and K(b)(Zn) = 2.0 (+/-1.3) x 10(10) M(-1). For DF, these experiments yielded equilibrium constants for the process of two M(2+) binding to form M(2+)(2)-DF of beta(2)(Co) = 2.5 (+/-1.6) x 10(14) M(-2) and beta(2)(Zn) = 6.3 (+/-2.5) x 10(20) M(-2). The ZnS(4) coordination environment of Zn(2+)-bound CF was confirmed with X-ray absorption spectroscopy. A detailed analysis of these data suggests that the N-terminal and C-terminal fingers of DF act as independent and identical Zn(2+)-binding sites and each finger binds Zn(2+) with an affinity equivalent to that of CF.
Transcription of the human insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) gene is under the control of four promoters (P1-P4) that are differentially active during growth and development. Promoter 3 (P3) is the most active promoter during fetal development as well as in most adult tissues. P3 is also the most active promoter in tumour tissues and cell lines expressing IGF-II. Transient transfections of HeLa and Hep3B cells with truncated promoter constructs revealed that the region between -289 and -183 relative to the transcription start site supports basal promoter activity in both cell lines. Footprint experiments showed that the region between positions -192 and -172 (P3-4) is the only element bound by nuclear proteins. P3-4 is bound by five proteins, of which three proteins (proteins 3, 4 and 5) bind specifically and are expressed at the same levels in HeLa and Hep3B cells. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays and differential footprint experiments revealed the presence of two protein-binding regions within the P3-4 element. Proteins 4 and 5 bind box A (-193 to -188), whereas box B (-183 to -172) is bound by protein 3. From transcription experiments in vitro it can be concluded that Box A is essential for P3 activity. Box A is part of a region 11 dG residues long and is protected by proteins 4 and 5 that bind a contiguous set of six dG residues. DNA-binding of proteins 4 and 5 to box A requires the presence of Zn2+ ions. Thus structural and functional analysis reveals that the P3-4 element is a key regulatory element of P3 that contains two separate binding sites for proteins essential for the basal activity of IGF-II P3.
To investigate the mechanism of nitrogen metabolite repression in the biotechnologically important fungus Penicillium chrysogenum a polymerase chain reaction approach was employed to identify transcription factors involved in this regulatory circuit, leading to the isolation of a new gene (nreB) encoding a 298 amino acid protein. Despite a low overall amino acid sequence identity of approximately 30%, it shares several features with Dal80p/Uga43p and Gzf3p/Nil2p, both repressors in nitrogen metabolism in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. All three proteins contain an N-terminal GATA-type zinc finger motif, displaying 86% amino acid sequence identity, and a putative leucine zipper motif in the C terminus. Northern blot analysis revealed the presence of two nreB transcripts, 1.8 and 1.5 kilobases in length, that differ in polyadenylation sites. The steady state level of both transcripts is subject to nitrogen metabolite repression. The putative DNA binding domain of NREB, expressed as a fusion protein in Escherichia coli, binds in vitro to GATA sites of its own 5'-upstream region as well as in the promoter of the nitrate assimilation gene cluster. Consistent with a role in the regulation of nitrogen metabolism, overexpression of nreB leads to repression of nitrate assimilatory genes. Hence, the simple view of nitrogen regulation by four GATA factors in yeast, but only one key regulator in filamentous ascomycetes seems no longer valid.
A peptide corresponding to residues 101-141 of the human nucleotide excision repair protein XPA was synthesized with an isoleucine substituted for L138 and its solution structure studied by circular dichroism and homonuclear 1H NMR spectroscopy. The peptide, (XPA-41), contains a C4-type zinc-binding motif, C105-(X)2-C108-(X)17-C126-(X)2-C129, which XPA requires for damaged-DNA binding activity. The proton resonances of XPA-41 without zinc (apoXPA-41) were assigned using homonuclear TOCSY, NOESY and DQF-COSY data and show the apo-zinc peptide is a random coil. The peptide was folded with the addition of 1.2 equivalents of ZnCl2 in dilute solution at pH 4.0. Electrospray ionization mass spectroscopy illustrated an increase in the molecular weight of XPA-41 by 65 amu. Circular dichroism spectra of the zinc-folded peptide (zXPA-41) showed the acquisition of elements of secondary structure. Such a conclusion was confirmed with 1H NMR data collected at 25 degrees C, pH 6.3. H alpha-secondary shifts and NOE patterns indicate that regions V102-C105 and G109-F112 form an anti-parallel beta-sheet and residues N128-K137 form a nascent alpha-helix. Rapid exchange of most amide resonances between S115-C126 prohibited unambiguous assignment of all the proton resonances in this region. However, a 1.19 ppm downfield shift of the H alpha resonance of T125 relative to the apo-zinc peptide, together with downfield shifted H alpha resonances for the adjacent residues (P124 and L123), suggest a second beta-sheet is present in the S115-C126 region. On the basis of structural similarities to GATA-1 (Science 261:438-446), a homology generated structure for zXPA-41 was made, using GATA-1 as the template, which satisfied all the observed NOEs. Using the hybrid homology-NMR based zXPA-41 structure and analogy to GATA-1, models for the role played by the zinc-binding core (101-141) of XPA in DNA damage recognition are proposed.
The NIT2 nitrogen regulatory protein of Neurospora is a DNA binding protein which contains a single Cys2/Cys2 type finger motif followed immediately by a highly basic region. Several different approaches were employed to identify nucleotides which appear to be in contact with NIT2 in the DNA-protein complex. Methylation interference and missing contact analyses with the promoter DNA fragment of the L-amino acid oxidase gene showed that all three purines in both of two GATA core sequences and the single adenine residue in each of the complementary TATC sequences were in intimate contact with NIT2. Modification or loss of the three purine residues located between the two GATA core sequences also significantly reduced NIT2 binding, whereas alteration of purines which flank the binding element showed only minor effects. Chemical modification of all six thymine bases in the two GATA and TATC complement core sequences also strongly affected NIT2 binding. High affinity NIT2 binding sites appear to contain at least two GATA core sequences, with single GATA sequences acting only as weak binding sites. Mobility shift experiments with the DNA fragment upstream of nit-3, the structural gene for nitrate reductase, revealed two DNA-NIT2 protein complexes. In complex I, which is formed first, NIT2 was bound to a pair of GATA sites located at -180. In complex II, the paired GATA sites at -180 plus a single GATA site at -290 were all occupied by NIT2. A DNA fragment containing only the single -290 GATA element bound NIT2 very weakly. The affinity of this single GATA for NIT2 was ten to twenty times greater when it was situated on the same DNA fragment with the distant paired GATA elements than when alone.
Dietary zinc supplementation may help to promote growth, boost the immune system, protect against diabetes, and aid recovery from diarrhoea. We exploited the zebrafish (Danio rerio) gill as a unique vertebrate ion transporting epithelium model to study the time-dependent regulatory networks of gene-expression leading to homeostatic control during zinc supplementation. This organ forms a conduit for zinc uptake whilst exhibiting conservation of zinc trafficking components.
Fish were maintained with either zinc supplemented water (4.0 μM) and diet (2023 mg zinc kg-1) or water and diet containing Zn2+ at 0.25 μM and 233 mg zinc kg-1, respectively. Gill tissues were harvested at five time points (8 hours to 14 days) and transcriptome changes analysed in quintuplicate using a 16 K microarray with results anchored to gill Zn2+ influx and whole body nutrient composition (protein, carbohydrate, lipid, elements). The number of regulated genes increased up to day 7 but declined as the fish acclimated. In total 525 genes were regulated (having a fold-change more than 1.8 fold change and an adjusted P-value less than 0.1 which is controlling a 10% False discovery rate, FDR) by zinc supplementation, but little overlap was observed between genes regulated at successive time-points. Many genes displayed cyclic expression, typical for homeostatic control mechanisms. Annotation enrichment analysis revealed strong overrepresentation of "transcription factors", with specific association evident with "steroid hormone receptors". A suite of genes linked to "development" were also statistically overrepresented. More specifically, early regulation of genes was linked to a few key transcription factors (e.g. Mtf1, Jun, Stat1, Ppara, Gata3) and was followed by hedgehog and bone morphogenic protein signalling.
The results suggest that zinc supplementation reactivated developmental pathways in the gill and stimulated stem cell differentiation, a response likely reflecting gill remodelling in response to its altered environment. This provides insight to the role of zinc during cell differentiation and illustrates the critical nature of maintaining zinc status. The study also highlights the importance of temporal transcriptomics analysis in order resolve the discrete elements of biological processes, such as zinc acclimation.
Two new examples of uncommon three-dimensional Ca-bearing metal organic frameworks, [Ca(H2O)3(HPXBP)] (CaP1) and [Ca2(H2O)2(HPXBP)1.5] (CaP2) (PXBP: p-xylylenebisphosphonate), were prepared and their structures characterized by single crystal X-ray diffraction. CaP1 crystallizes in the monoclinic C2/c space group, with three water molecules occupying a half coordination sphere on one side of the Ca atom, while CaP2 crystallizes in the triclinic P1̅ space group, with two crystallographic unique Ca atoms, each coordinated by a single water molecule. In contrast with CaP2, which exhibits very low bioactivity, CaP1 readily precipitates bone-precursor phases (octacalcium phosphate, OCP, and hydroxyapatite) in SBF solutions. Moreover, studies with MG63 osteoblast-like cells indicate that CaP1 is not toxic and stimulates bone mineralization and, thus, holds considerable potential for treating bone diseases, such as osteoporosis.
The major fungal pathogen of humans, Candida albicans, mounts robust responses to oxidative stress that are critical for its virulence. These responses counteract the reactive oxygen species (ROS) that are generated by host immune cells in an attempt to kill the invading fungus. Knowledge of the dynamical processes that instigate C. albicans oxidative stress responses is required for a proper understanding of fungus-host interactions. Therefore, we have adopted an interdisciplinary approach to explore the dynamical responses of C. albicans to hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). Our deterministic mathematical model integrates two major oxidative stress signalling pathways (Cap1 and Hog1 pathways) with the three major antioxidant systems (catalase, glutathione and thioredoxin systems) and the pentose phosphate pathway, which provides reducing equivalents required for oxidative stress adaptation. The model encapsulates existing knowledge of these systems with new genomic, proteomic, transcriptomic, molecular and cellular datasets. Our integrative approach predicts the existence of alternative states for the key regulators Cap1 and Hog1, thereby suggesting novel regulatory behaviours during oxidative stress. The model reproduces both existing and new experimental observations under a variety of scenarios. Time- and dose-dependent predictions of the oxidative stress responses for both wild type and mutant cells have highlighted the different temporal contributions of the various antioxidant systems during oxidative stress adaptation, indicating that catalase plays a critical role immediately following stress imposition. This is the first model to encapsulate the dynamics of the transcriptional response alongside the redox kinetics of the major antioxidant systems during H2O2 stress in C. albicans.
To determine the prevalence of the different capsular polysaccharide (CP) and major surface-associated non-CP antigen 336 (SP-336) types among Staphylococcus aureus isolated from bovine mastitis cases in Australia and India.
A total of 414 strains (154 from Australia, 260 from India) isolated from clinical bovine mastitis were included in the study. Mouse antisera raised against CP types (CP1, CP2, CP5, and CP8) or SP-336 were used in slide agglutination tests and compared with detection of cap1, cap5 and cap8 gene fragments by PCR.
Serological studies revealed the presence of CP2, CP5, CP8 and SP-336 in 9.1%, 23.4%, 31.8%, and 5.8% of the Australian versus 0.8%, 46.9%, 13.1% and 0% of the Indian isolates, respectively. By PCR, CP1, CP5 and CP8 accounted for 0%, 26.6% and 32.4% of the Australian versus 3.9%, 85% and 8.1% of the Indian isolates, respectively.
Both PCR and the serological method demonstrated that CP5 and CP8 are the predominant capsular types in Australia, whereas CP5 is the predominant capsular type in India. The study also demonstrated a strong correlation between both methods of typing for CP1, CP5, CP8 and non-typeable S. aureus strains. High-percentage prevalence of non-typeable isolates in both the countries highlights the importance of continued investigations of the identification of unique surface-associated polysaccharide antigens prevalent among S. aureus isolates for the formulation of CP- and SP-based vaccines for bovine mastitis.
The innate immune sensor RIG-I recognizes viral RNA while avoiding unwanted activation by self RNA. In this issue of Immunity, Schuberth-Wagner et al. (2015) show that a histidine residue in the RNA binding pocket of RIG-I sterically excludes the cap1 structure of self RNA, thereby preventing downstream activation.
The aim of this study was to investigate the antifungal activity of baicalin and its potential mechanism of action against Candida albicans biofilms. The standard techniques including microdilution method and checkerboard assay were employed to evaluate the susceptibilities of baicalin alone and in combination with fluconazole against planktonic and biofilm cells of C. albicans. Transmission electron microscope (TEM), scanning electron microscope (SEM), fluorescent microscope and flow cytometry were used to assess the apoptotic incidences induced by baicalin in biofilm cells. The expressions of four genes (RAS1, CAP1, PDE2 and TPK1) related to Ras-cAMP-PKA pathway were also analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The results showed that minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and sessile minimum inhibitory concentration (SMIC50) of baicalin were 500 and 2000 μg/mL with fractional inhibitory concentration indexs (FICIs) ranging from 0.28 to 0.75. A series of events related to apoptosis were observed in baicalin-treated C. albicans biofilms, including extensive chromatin condensation along the nuclear envelope, ROS accumulation, MMP reduction, PS externalization, nuclear fragmentation, chromatin condensation, metacaspase activation and Cyt C release. Additionally, the expressions of RAS1 and TPK1 were up-regulated by 3.2 and 2.9 folds respectively, while those of CAP1 and PDE2 were down-regulated by 3.3 and 6.6 folds respectively after exposure to baicalin in biofilm cells. In conclusion, baicalin can suppress the development of C. albicans biofilms most likely due to inducing cell death via apoptosis.
The patterning of actin cytoskeleton structures in vivo is a product of spatially and temporally regulated polymer assembly balanced by polymer disassembly. While in recent years our understanding of actin assembly mechanisms has grown immensely, our knowledge of actin disassembly machinery and mechanisms has remained comparatively sparse. Saccharomyces cerevisiae is an ideal system to tackle this problem, both because of its amenabilities to genetic manipulation and live-cell imaging and because only a single gene encodes each of the core disassembly factors: cofilin (COF1), Srv2/CAP (SRV2), Aip1 (AIP1), GMF (GMF1/AIM7), coronin (CRN1), and twinfilin (TWF1). Among these six factors, only the functions of cofilin are essential and have been well defined. Here, we investigated the functions of the nonessential actin disassembly factors by performing genetic and live-cell imaging analyses on a combinatorial set of isogenic single, double, triple, and quadruple mutants in S. cerevisiae. Our results show that each disassembly factor makes an important contribution to cell viability, actin organization, and endocytosis. Further, our data reveal new relationships among these factors, providing insights into how they work together to orchestrate actin turnover. Finally, we observe specific combinations of mutations that are lethal, e.g., srv2Δ aip1Δ and srv2Δ crn1Δ twf1Δ, demonstrating that while cofilin is essential, it is not sufficient in vivo, and that combinations of the other disassembly factors perform vital functions. © 2015 The Authors. Cytoskeleton Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The serine protease prostasin (PRSS8, CAP1) and its activator matriptase and inhibitor nexin-1 are necessary for normal placental development in mice. Prostasin is regulated by aldosterone in the kidney and may activate the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC). Preeclampsia is characterized by disturbed placentation, suppression of aldosterone and avid renal sodium retention with hypertension. It was hypothesized that preeclampsia is associated with low prostasin expression in placenta and spillover of prostasin into urine across the defect glomeular barrier.
The hypothesis was addressed in a cross-sectional case-control design with 20 healthy pregnant women and 20 women with new onset of preeclampsia (hypertension and 1+ for protein on urine dipstick). Blood and urine samples were obtained in relation to delivery and placental biopsies were taken immediately after delivery (control = 39 and preeclampsia 40 weeks). Prostasin, matriptase, nexin-1 and HAIs were measured by qPCR and western immunoblotting (prostasin, matriptase, nexin-1) and ELISA (prostasin). Aldosterone was measured in plasma and urine by ELISA.
Women with preeclampsia displayed lower levels of aldosterone in plasma and in spot urine normalized for creatinine (p = 0.0001). Placental weight was not different between groups. Prostasin, matriptase, HAI 1 and 2, and nexin mRNA abundances were not different in placental tissue between groups. Prostasin and nexin protein level in placental homogenate was not different between groups. Active matriptase was expressed at very low levels in placenta. Western blotting showed significantly elevated urine excretion of prostasin in preeclamptic patients compared to controls. Plasma prostasin was not different between groups and did not correlate to aldosterone or placental weight. In summary, preeclampsia is associated with increased urine but not plasma or tissue prostasin
: It is concluded that placental and plasma prostasin level is not controlled by aldosterone during term pregnancy. In contrast, prostasin is aberrantly filtered and may contribute to renal EnaC activation and suppression of aldosterone in preeclampsia. Potential impact of prostasin-matriptase on placental development is likely to be at the level of activity and not protein abundance.
Secreted protein components of hookworm species include a number of representatives of the cysteine-rich/antigen 5/pathogenesis-related 1 (CAP) protein family known as Ancylostoma-secreted proteins (ASPs). Some of these have been considered as candidate antigens for the development of vaccines against hookworms. The functions of most CAP superfamily members are poorly understood, but one form, the hookworm platelet inhibitor (HPI), has been isolated as a putative antagonist of the platelet integrins αIIbβ3 and α2β1. Here, the crystal structure of HPI is described and its structural features are examined in relation to its possible function. The HPI structure is similar to those of other ASPs and shows incomplete conservation of the sequence motifs CAP1 and CAP2 that are considered to be diagnostic of CAP superfamily members. The asymmetric unit of the HPI crystal contains a dimer with an extensive interaction interface, but chromatographic measurements indicate that it is primarily monomeric in solution. In the dimeric structure, the putative active-site cleft areas from both monomers are united into a single negatively charged depression. A potential Lys-Gly-Asp disintegrin-like motif was identified in the sequence of HPI, but is not positioned at the apex of a tight turn, making it unlikely that it interacts with the integrin. Recombinant HPI produced in Escherichia coli was found not to inhibit the adhesion of human platelets to collagen or fibrinogen, despite having a native structure as shown by X-ray diffraction. This result corroborates previous analyses of recombinant HPI and suggests that it might require post-translational modification or have a different biological function.
Bluetongue virus (BTV) encodes a single capping protein, VP4, which catalyzes all reactions required to generate cap1 structures on nascent viral transcripts. Further, structural analysis by X-ray crystallography indicated each catalytic reaction is arranged as a discrete domain, including a nucleoside-2'-O-methyltransferase (2'-O MTase). In this study, we have exploited the structural information to identify the residues that are important for the catalytic activity of 2'-O MTase of VP4 and their influence on BTV replication. The effect of these mutations on GMP binding, guanylyltransferase (GTase) and methylase activities were analysed by a series of in vitro biochemical assays using recombinant mutant proteins; subsequently their effects on virus replication were assessed by introducing the same mutations in replicating viral genome using a reverse genetics system. Our data showed that single substitution mutations in the catalytic tetrad K-D-K-E were sufficient to abolish 2'-O MTase activity in vitro and to completely abrogate BTV replication in cells; although these mutants retained the upstream GMP binding, GTase and guanine-N7-methyltransferase activities. Mutations of the surrounding substrate-binding pocket (predicted to recruit cap0) had variable effects on in vitro VP4 capping activity. Only triple but not single substitution mutations of these residues in genome resulted in reduced virus replication kinetics. This is the first report investigating the importance of 2'-O MTase function for any member of the Reoviridae and highlights the significance of K-D-K-E tetrad and surrounding residues for the efficiency of 2'-O MTase activity and in turn, for virus fitness.
[Ca(2+)]cyt-associated protein kinase (CAP) gene 1 is a receptor-like kinase that belongs to CrRLK1L (Catharanthus roseus Receptor like kinase) subfamily. CAP1 has been identified as a novel modulator of NH4(+) in the tonoplast, which regulates root hair growth by maintaining the cytoplasmic Ca(2+) gradients. Different expression pattern of tonoplast intrinsic protein (TIP2;3) in the CAP1 knock out mutant and wild type on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium suggested that CAP1 influences transport activity to regulate the compartmentalization of NH4(+) into vacuole. Lower expression level of Oxidative Signal-Inducible1(OXI1) in the cap1-1 root and the abnormal reactive oxygen species (ROS) gradient in root hair of cap1-1 on MS medium indicated that ROS signaling involve in CAP1-regulated root hair growth. Wild-type-like ROS distribution pattern in the cap1-1 root hair can be reestablished in seedlings grown on NH4(+) deficient medium, which indicated that CAP1 functions as a sensor for NH4(+) signaling in maintaining tip-focused ROS gradient in root hairs polar growth.
Adenylate cyclase-associated protein 1 (CAP1) regulates both actin filaments and the Ras/cAMP pathway in yeast, and has been found play a role in cell motility and in the development of certain types of cancer. In the present study, we investigated CAP1 gene expression in human epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC). Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry were performed using EOC tissue samples and the results revealed that CAP1 expression increased with the increasing grade of EOC. In the normal ovarian tissue samples however, CAP1 expression was barely detected. Using Pearson's χ2 test, it was demonstrated that CAP1 expression was associated with the histological grade and Ki-67 expression. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that a higher CAP1 expression in patients with EOC was associated with a poorer prognosis. In in vitro experiments using HO-8910 EOC cells, the expression of CAP1 was knocked down using siRNA. The proliferation of the HO-8910 cells was then determined by cell cycle analysis and cell proliferation assay using the cell counting kit-8 and flow cytometry. The results revealed that the loss of CAP1 expression inhibited cell cycle progression. These findings suggest that a high expression of CAP1 is involved in the pathogenesis of EOC, and that the downregulation of CAP1 in tumor cells may be a therapeutic target for the treatment of patients with EOC.
Electron beam irradiation has shown potential as an alternative process for the treatment of industrial effluents that contain toxic organic chemicals. This study investigated the effectiveness of electron beam in degrading chloramphenicol (CAP) in aqueous solution. The degradation efficiency was 32.4% at 1 kGy, 86.9% at 5 kGy, and 100% at 10 kGy. The total organic carbon (TOC) of CAP in aqueous solution declined 4.6% at 1 kGy, 12.1% at 5 kGy, and 17.1% at 10 kGy of irradiation with electron beam. The CAP degradation products after irradiation were CAP1 ([M + H] m/z 307.1), CAP2 ([M + H] m/z 291.1), and CAP3 ([M + H] m/z 321.1). The degradation products were tested for microbial toxicity against Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas putida, and Bacillus subtilis and did not show any toxic antimicrobial effects caused by the CAP degradation products after irradiation with electron beam. The results of this study suggest that electron beam irradiation is the best technology for the comprehensive treatment of veterinary antibiotics at wastewater treatment plants.
Cyclase associated protein (CAP) is a highly conserved protein with roles in actin dynamics and many cellular processes. Two isoforms exist in higher eukaryotes, CAP1 and CAP2. CAP1 is ubiquitously expressed whereas CAP2 shows restricted tissue distribution. In mice, ablation of CAP2 leads to development of cardiomyopathy. CAP2 is expressed in skin. In human skin its expression is increased in wounds. To elucidate the role of CAP2 in skin upon injury, we studied the wound healing in CAP2 deficient mice and found altered wound healing response presumably resulting from reduced levels of α-SMA, decreased macrophage infiltration and slower neovascularization. In vitro cultured Cap2 deficient keratinocytes showed reduced velocity and a delay in scratch closure. The analysis of primary mutant fibroblasts also showed reduced velocity and less contractibility. They had extended protrusions and more focal adhesions. In addition the F-actin content was increased keeping the total actin content unaltered. Mutant fibroblasts furthermore exhibited an altered response during recovery from drug-induced disruption of the actin cytoskeleton. Interestingly, CAP1 was upregulated in knockout unwounded skin and in wounds which might partially compensate for the loss of CAP2. Taken together, our studies reveal a role for CAP2 in wound healing which may be based on its function as a regulator of the actin cytoskeleton.
This study was designed to establish a biomarker risk model for predicting brain metastasis (BM) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The model comprises 120 cases of NSCLC that were treated and followed up for 4 years. The patients were divided into the BM (n=50) and non-BM (other visceral metastasis and those without recurrence) (n=70) groups. Immunohistochemical and western blot analyses were performed in metastatic tissues of NSCLC. Multivariate regression analysis was performed to correlate the immunoreactive cyclase-associated protein 1 (CAP1) signal with BM. Survival analyses were performed by using the Kaplan-Meier method. CAP1 protein content and immunoreactivity were significantly increased in BM specimens compared to other-metastatic specimens. The survival analysis revealed that CAP1 overexpression was significantly associated with survival (P<0.05). The ROC test suggested that the area under the curve was 73.33% (P<0.001; 95% CI, 63.5-83.2%). When P=0.466, the sensitivity and specificity reached 79.5 and 67.1%, respectively. These findings suggested that CAP1 is involved in the BM of NSCLC, and that elevated levels of CAP1 expression may indicate a poor prognosis for patients with BM. The CAP1 molecular model may be useful in the prediction of the risk of BM in NSCLC.
To investigate the relationship between expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 and expression of adenylyl cyclase-associated protein (CAP)-1 in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Patients with possible respiratory disease were recruited into the study and divided into a COPD group and a non-COPD group on diagnosis. Pulmonary function tests were performed and serum concentrations of MMP-9 were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. MMP-9 and CAP1 expression were analysed in lung tissue and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid in all available samples using immunohistochemistry and Western blot, respectively. In addition, expression of MMP-9 and CAP1 in vitro was investigated using immunofluorescence. Expression of CAP1 in response to MMP-9 was measured in the human alveolar epithelial cell line HP-AEpiC, using Western blot.
A total of 90 patients were included in the study: 52 were in the COPD group and 38 in the non-COPD group. Serum MMP-9 concentrations were significantly higher in the COPD than in the non-COPD group. MMP-9 serum concentrations were negatively correlated with forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1), FEV1 as a percentage of the normal predicted value and the ratio of FEV1 to forced vital capacity, and were positively correlated with residual volume (RV), total lung capacity (TLC) and RV/TLC values. In lung tissue and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples, MMP-9 and CAP1 expression were inversely related. This relationship was confirmed in HP-AEpiC cells. High expression of MMP-9 and low expression of CAP1 was demonstrated in the COPD group compared with the non-COPD group.
This study demonstrated an inverse relationship between CAP1 and MMP-9 expression, and high expression of MMP-9 and low expression of CAP1 in those with COPD compared with the non-COPD group. Overexpression of MMP-9 in lung tissue and its interaction with CAP1 is likely to play a major role in airway obstruction in COPD.
Cell signaling can control the dynamic balance between filamentous and monomeric actin by modulating actin regulatory proteins. One family of actin regulating proteins that controls actin dynamics comprises cyclase-associated proteins 1 and 2 (CAP1 and 2, respectively). However, cell signals that regulate CAPs remained unknown. We mapped phosphorylation sites on mouse CAP1 and found S307 and S309 to be regulatory sites. We further identified glycogen synthase kinase 3 as a kinase phosphorylating S309. The phosphomimetic mutant S307D/S309D lost binding to its partner cofilin and, when expressed in cells, caused accumulation of actin stress fibers similar to that in cells with reduced CAP expression. In contrast, the non-phosphorylatable S307A/S309A mutant showed drastically increased cofilin binding and reduced binding to actin. These results suggest that the phosphorylation serves to facilitate release of cofilin for a subsequent cycle of actin filament severing. Moreover, our results suggest that S307 and S309 function in tandem; neither the alterations in binding cofilin and/or actin, nor the defects in rescuing the phenotype of the enlarged cell size in CAP1 knockdown cells was observed in point mutants of either S307 or S309. In summary, we identify a novel regulatory mechanism of CAP1 through phosphorylation.
Candida albicans is one of the most important opportunistic pathogens, causing both mucosal candidiasis and life-threatening systemic infections. To survive in the host immune defense system, this pathogen uses an elaborate signaling network to recognize and respond to oxidative stress, which is essential for its pathogenicity. However, the exact mechanisms that this fungus employs to integrate the oxidative stress response (OSR) with functions of various organelles remain uncharacterized. Our previous work implicated a connection between the calcium signaling system and the OSR. In this study, we find that the vacuolar transient receptor potential (TRP) channel Yvc1, one of the calcium signaling members, plays a critical role in cell tolerance to oxidative stress. We further provide evidence that this channel is required not only for activation of Cap1-related transcription of OSR genes but also for maintaining the stability of both the mitochondria and the vacuole in a potassium- and calcium-dependent manner. Element assays reveal that this TRP channel affects calcium influx and potassium transport from the vacuole to the mitochondria. Therefore, the TRP channel governs the novel interaction among the OSR, the vacuole, and the mitochondria by mediating ion transport in this pathogen under oxidative stress.
Candida parapsilosis and Candida albicans are human fungal pathogens that belong to the CTG clade in the Saccharomycotina. In contrast to C. albicans, relatively little is known about the virulence properties of C. parapsilosis, a pathogen particularly associated with infections of premature neonates. We describe here the construction of C. parapsilosis strains carrying double allele deletions of 100 transcription factors, protein kinases and species-specific genes. Two independent deletions were constructed for each target gene. Growth in >40 conditions was tested, including carbon source, temperature, and the presence of antifungal drugs. The phenotypes were compared to C. albicans strains with deletions of orthologous transcription factors. We found that many phenotypes are shared between the two species, such as the role of Upc2 as a regulator of azole resistance, and of CAP1 in the oxidative stress response. Others are unique to one species. For example, Cph2 plays a role in the hypoxic response in C. parapsilosis but not in C. albicans. We found extensive divergence between the biofilm regulators of the two species. We identified seven transcription factors and one protein kinase that are required for biofilm development in C. parapsilosis. Only three (Efg1, Bcr1 and Ace2) have similar effects on C. albicans biofilms, whereas Cph2, Czf1, Gzf3 and Ume6 have major roles in C. parapsilosis only. Two transcription factors (Brg1 and Tec1) with well-characterized roles in biofilm formation in C. albicans do not have the same function in C. parapsilosis. We also compared the transcription profile of C. parapsilosis and C. albicans biofilms. Our analysis suggests the processes shared between the two species are predominantly metabolic, and that Cph2 and Bcr1 are major biofilm regulators in C. parapsilosis.
Srv2/CAP is a conserved actin-binding protein with important roles in driving cellular actin dynamics in diverse animal, fungal, and plant species. However, there have been conflicting reports about whether the activities of Srv2/CAP are conserved, particularly between yeast and mammalian homologs. Yeast Srv2 has two distinct functions in actin turnover: its hexameric N-terminal-half enhances cofilin-mediated severing of filaments, while its C-terminal-half catalyzes dissociation of cofilin from ADP-actin monomers and stimulates nucleotide exchange. Here, we dissected the structure and function of mouse CAP1 to better understand its mechanistic relationship to yeast Srv2. Although CAP1 has a shorter N-terminal oligomerization sequence compared with Srv2, we find that the N-terminal-half of CAP1 (N-CAP1) forms hexameric structures with six protrusions, similar to N-Srv2. Further, N-CAP1 autonomously binds to F-actin and decorates the sides and ends of filaments, altering F-actin structure and enhancing cofilin-mediated severing. These activities depend on conserved surface residues on the helical-folded domain. Moreover, N-CAP1 enhances yeast cofilin-mediated severing, and conversely, yeast N-Srv2 enhances human cofilin-mediated severing, highlighting the mechanistic conservation between yeast and mammals. Further, we demonstrate that the C-terminal actin-binding β-sheet domain of CAP1 is sufficient to catalyze nucleotide-exchange of ADP-actin monomers, while in the presence of cofilin this activity additionally requires the WH2 domain. Thus, the structures, activities, and mechanisms of mouse and yeast Srv2/CAP homologs are remarkably well conserved, suggesting that the same activities and mechanisms underlie many of the diverse actin-based functions ascribed to Srv2/CAP homologs in different organisms.
The vacuolar-type H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) is a multiprotein complex consisting of the V0 and V1 sectors, and is required for vacuolar acidification and virulence in the opportunistic fungal pathogen Candida albicans. In this study, we identified C. albicans Tfp1 as a putative subunit of V-ATPase, and explored its importance in multiple cellular processes. Our results revealed that Tfp1 played an essential role in vacuolar acidification and endocytic trafficking. In addition, the tfp1Δ/Δ mutant was sensitive to alkaline pH and elevated calcium concentrations, which is characteristic of loss of V-ATPase activity. The mutant also showed hypersensitivity to metal ions which might be attributed to a defect in sequestration of toxic ions to the vacuole through proton gradient produced by V-ATPase. Interestingly, deletion of TFP1 triggered endogenous oxidative stress even without exogenous oxidants. Compared with the wild-type strain, the tfp1Δ/Δ mutant showed significantly higher ROS levels and lower expression levels of redox-related genes with the addition of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). Western blotting analysis showed that deletion of TFP1 significantly reduced the expression of Cap1 under H2O2 treatment, which contributes to the regulation of genes involved in the oxidative stress response. Furthermore, the tfp1Δ/Δ mutant showed significantly impaired filamentous development in hyphal induction media, and was avirulent in a mouse model of systemic candidiasis. Taken together, our results suggested that the putative V1 subunit Tfp1 is essential for vacuolar function and C. albicans pathogenesis, and provided a promising candidate for antifungal drugs.
The Dof (DNA-binding with one finger) proteins are plant transcription factors that have a highly conserved DNA-binding domain, called the Dof domain. The Dof domain, which is composed of 52 amino acid residues, is similar to the Cys2/Cys2 zinc finger DNA-binding domain of GATA1 and steroid hormone receptors, but has a longer putative loop than that in the case of these zinc finger domains. The DNA-binding function of ascorbate oxidase gene binding protein (AOBP), a Dof protein, was investigated by gel retardation analysis. When Cys was replaced by His, the Dof domain could not function as a Cys3/His- or a Cys2/His2-type zinc finger. The characteristic longer loop was essential for DNA-binding activity. Furthermore, heavy metals such as Co(II), Ni(II), Cd(II), Cu(II), Hg(II), Fe(II), and Fe(III) inhibited the DNA-binding activity of the Dof domain. Manganese ion as well as zinc ion was coordinated by the Dof domain in vitro. On the other hand, the analysis using inductively coupled argon plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) showed that the Dof domain contained zinc ion but not manganese ion. Thus, the Dof domain was proved to function as a Cys2/Cys2 zinc finger domain.
Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) has previously been shown to inhibit the DNA binding activity of hypoxia inducible factor-1 (HIF-1), the accumulation of HIF-1alpha protein and erythropoietin (Epo) gene expression. Epo gene expression has been previously shown to be down-regulated through a GATA binding site at its promoter region. In this study, the effect of H2O2 on Epo gene expression under hypoxic conditions through a GATA transcription factor was investigated. Hypoxic induction was found to be inhibited upon the addition of H2O2, and this effect could be reversed through the addition of catalase. Hypoxic induction was found to be suppressed by co-transfection with a human GATA-2 cDNA expression plasmid. Transfection of Hep3B cells with a reporter gene bearing a mutation at the promoter GATA binding site was found to be only mildly affected by the addition of H2O2. Electrophoretic gel mobility shift assays (EMSAs), using the Epo promoter GATA site as a probe and the GATA-2 protein extracted from Hep3B cells, showed that addition of H2O2 enhanced the binding of GATA-2 while addition of catalase inhibited this binding. From these results, we conclude that H2O2 increases the binding activity of GATA-2 in a specific manner, thereby suppressing the activity of the Epo promoter and thus inhibiting Epo gene expression.
Genetic and biochemical studies have established that the sole function of the Escherichia coli DnaJ, DnaK, and GrpE heat shock proteins in plasmid P1 DNA replication is to convert RepA dimers to monomers. Monomers bind avidly to oriP1 DNA and initiate DNA replication. However, with purified heat shock proteins, only DnaJ, DnaK, and ATP were required for the monomerization of RepA; GrpE was not required. We have found reaction conditions that mimic the physiological situation. GrpE function is absolutely necessary for RepA activation in vitro with DnaJ and DnaK when the free Mg2+ concentration is maintained at a level of approximately 1 microM by a metal ion buffer system. EDTA or physiological metabolites, including citrate, phosphate, pyrophosphate, and ATP, all elicit the GrpE requirement. With these metal ion-buffering systems, GrpE specifically lowers the concentration of Mg2+ required for the RepA activation reaction. The absence of Mg2+ blocks activation and high levels of Mg2+ in solution bypass the requirement for GrpE but not for the other two heat shock proteins. Our results imply that GrpE facilitates the utilization of Mg2+ for an essential step in RepA activation.
The presynaptic action of Bothriopsis bilineata smaragdina (forest viper) venom and Bbil-TX, an Asp49 PLA2 from this venom, was examined in detail in mouse phrenic nerve-muscle (PND) preparations in vitro and in a neuroblastoma cell line (SK-N-SH) in order to gain a better insight into the mechanism of action of the venom and associated Asp49 PLA2. In low Ca(2+) solution, venom (3μg/ml) caused a quadriphasic response in PND twitch height whilst at 10μg/ml the venom additionally induced an abrupt and marked initial contracture followed by neuromuscular facilitation, rhythmic oscillations of nerve-evoked twitches, alterations in baseline and progressive blockade. The venom slowed the relaxation phase of muscle twitches. In low Ca(2+), Bbil-TX [210nM (3μg/ml)] caused a progressive increase in PND twitch amplitude but no change in the decay time constant. Venom (10μg/ml) and Bbil-TX (210nM) caused minor changes in the compound action potential (CAP) amplitude recorded from sciatic nerve preparations, with no significant effect on rise time and latency; tetrodotoxin (3.1nM) blocked the CAP at the end of the experiments. In mouse triangularis sterni nerve-muscle (TSn-m) preparations, venom (10μg/ml) and Bbil-TX (210nM) significantly reduced the perineural waveform associated with the outward K(+) current while the amplitude of the inward Na(+) current was not significantly affected. Bbil-TX (210nM) caused a progressive increase in the quantal content of TSn-m preparations maintained in low Ca(2+) solution. Venom (3μg/ml) and toxin (210nM) increased the calcium fluorescence in SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells loaded with Fluo3 AM and maintained in low or normal Ca(2+) solution. In normal Ca(2+), the increase in fluorescence amplitude was accompanied by irregular and frequent calcium transients. In TSn-m preparations loaded with Fluo4 AM, venom (10μg/ml) caused an immediate increase in intracellular Ca(2+) followed by oscillations in fluorescence and muscle contracture; Bbil-TX did not change the calcium fluorescence in TSn-m preparations. Immunohistochemical analysis of toxin-treated PND preparations revealed labeling of junctional ACh receptors but a loss of the presynaptic proteins synaptophysin and SNAP25. Together, these data confirm the presynaptic action of Bbil-TX and show that it involves modulation of K(+) channel activity and presynaptic protein expression.
Calcium ions have important roles in cellular processes including intracellular signaling, protein folding, enzyme activation and initiation of programmed cell death. Cells maintain low levels of calcium in their cytosol in order to regulate these processes. When activation of calcium-dependent processes is needed, cells can release calcium stored in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) into the cytosol to initiate the processes. This can also initiate activation of plasma membrane channels that allow entry of additional calcium from the extracellular milieu. The change in calcium levels is referred to as calcium flux. A key protein involved in initiation of calcium flux is Stromal Interaction Molecule 1 (STIM1), which has recently been identified as a sensor of ER calcium levels. STIM1 is an ER transmembrane protein that is activated by a drop in ER calcium levels. Upon activation, STIM1 interacts with a plasma membrane protein, ORAI1, to activate ORAI-containing calcium-selective plasma membrane channels. Dysregulation of calcium flux has been reported in cancers, autoimmune diseases and other diseases. STIM1 is a promising target in drug discovery due to its key role early in calcium flux. Here we review the involvement and importance of STIM1 in diseases and why STIM1 is a viable target for drug discovery. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Calcium signaling in health and disease. Guest Editors: Geert Bultynck, Jacques Haiech, Claus W. Heizmann, Joachim Krebs, and Marc Moreau.
Ischemia, and subsequent acidosis, induces neuronal death following brain injury. Oxidative stress is believed to be a key component of this neuronal degeneration. Acute chemical ischemia (azide in the absence of external glucose) and acidosis (external media buffered to pH 6.0) produce increases in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) and inward membrane currents in cultured rat cortical neurons. Two α-tocopherol analogues, trolox and butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), and the spin trapping molecule α-Phenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN) were used to determine the role of free radicals in these responses. PBN and BHT inhibited the initial transient increases in [Ca2+]i, produced by ischemia, acidosis and acidic ischemia and increased steady state levels in response to acidosis and the acidic ischemia. BHT and PBN also potentiated the rate at which [Ca2+]i increased after the initial transients during acidic ischemia. Trolox inhibited peak and sustained increases in [Ca2+]i during ischemia. BHT inhibited ischemia induced initial inward currents and trolox inhibited initial inward currents activated by acidosis and acidic ischemia. Given the inconsistent results obtained using these antioxidants, it is unlikely their effects were due to elimination of free radicals. Instead, it appears these compounds have non-specific effects on the ion channels and exchangers responsible for these responses.
Foam delivery technology (FDT) uses surfactant based foam to immobilize subsurface contaminants in situ. Where traditional approaches are impractical, FDT has the potential to overcome many of the technical challenges facing the remediation of contaminated deep vadose zone environments. However, little is known about the effects these reactive chemicals may have on microorganisms inhabiting the contaminated subsurface. In addition, there are currently no standard assays to assess microbial responses to subsurface remedial treatments while these agents are under development. The objective of this study was to develop a rapid laboratory assay to assess the potential growth inhibition and/or stimulation of microorganisms following exposure to candidate FDT components. Calcium polysulfide (CPS) and several surfactants (i.e. sodium laureth sulfate (SLES), sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), cocamidopropyl betaine (CAPB) and NINOL40-CO) have diverse chemistries and are candidate components of FDT. Shewanella oneidensis MR-1 cultures were exposed to a range of concentrations of these chemicals to determine the minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC) and the growth and viability potential of these components. Concentrations of SDS higher than 700 μM were toxic to S. oneidensis MR-1 growth over the course of four days of exposure. The relative acute toxicity order for these compounds was SDS > CPS > NINOL 40-CO>SLES≥CAPB. Dose dependent growth decreases (20-100mM) were observed in the CAPB and SLES treated cultures and both CPS and NINOL 40-CO were toxic at all concentrations tested (1.45-7.25 mM CPS). Both SLES (20-100mM) and SDS at lower concentrations (20-500 μM) were stimulatory to S. oneidensis MR-1 indicating a capacity to be used as a carbon source. These studies also identified potentially key component characteristics, such as precipitate formation and oxygen availability, which may prove valuable in assessing the response of subsurface microorganisms. This benchtop system provides a capability to assess adverse microbial-remediation responses and contributes to the development of in situ remedial chemistries before they are deployed in the field.
Inhalation of ozone is a major health risk in industrialized nations. Ozone can impair lung function and induce respiratory symptoms through sensory neural-mediated pathways, yet the specific interaction of ozone with airway sensory nerves has yet to be elucidated. Here we demonstrate, using a vagally innervated ex vivo tracheal-lung mouse preparation, that ozone selectively and directly evokes action potential discharge in a subset of nociceptive bronchopulmonary nerves, namely slow conducting C-fibres. Sensitivity to ozone correlated with the transient receptor potential (TRP) A1 agonist, cinnamaldehyde, with ozone having no effect on cinnamaldehyde-insensitive fibres. C-fibre responses to ozone were abolished by ruthenium red (TRP inhibitor). Ozone also stimulated a subset of nociceptive sensory neurones isolated from vagal ganglia of wild-type mice, but failed to activate neurones isolated from transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) knockout mice. Ozone activated HEK293 cells transfected with TRPA1, but failed to activate non-transfected HEK293 or HEK293 transfected with the capsaicin-sensitive transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) channel. Thus, ozone is not an indiscriminate neuronal activator, but rather it potently and selectively activates a subset of airway C-fibres by directly stimulating TRPA1.
Ancient biologically mediated sedimentary carbonate deposits, including stromatolites and other microbialites, provide insight into environmental conditions on early Earth. The primary limitation to interpreting these records is our lack of understanding regarding microbial processes and the preservation of geochemical signatures in contemporary microbialite systems. Using a combination of metagenomic sequencing and isotopic analyses, this study describes the identity, metabolic potential and chemical processes of microbial communities from living microbialites from Cuatro Ciénegas, Mexico. Metagenomic sequencing revealed a diverse, redox-dependent microbial community associated with the microbialites. The microbialite community is distinct from other marine and freshwater microbial communities, and demonstrates extensive environmental adaptation. The microbialite metagenomes contain a large number of genes involved in the production of exopolymeric substances and the formation of biofilms, creating a complex, spatially structured environment. In addition to the spatial complexity of the biofilm, microbial activity is tightly controlled by sensory and regulatory systems, which allow for coordination of autotrophic and heterotrophic processes. Isotopic measurements of the intracrystalline organic matter demonstrate the importance of heterotrophic respiration of photoautotrophic biomass in the precipitation of calcium carbonate. The genomic and stable isotopic data presented here significantly enhance our evolving knowledge of contemporary biomineralization processes, and are directly applicable to studies of ancient microbialites.
This article expands the author's presentation at the First American Cough Conference in New York City, June 8-9, 2007. The results of a scientific literature search and application of personal research findings are included. A new hypothesis to explain irritant-induced cough as a being a dysfunction of the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) cation channels located in pulmonary excitable cells is presented. The TRPV1 cation channels regulate cellular transmembrane voltage by raising intracellular Ca(2+) and Na(+) concentrations and depolarizing sensory nerve cells containing C-fibers. The discussion centers on the "capsaicin receptor" (TRPV1) and another important ion channel, TRPA1. The author reviews results of published scientific investigations to support his contention that neural events, initiated by TRPV1 ion channels, lead to a cascade of alterations that progress to a cough endpoint. A potential mechanism to explain chronic cough in conditions where there is repeated or severe irritant-induced airway epithelial injury (e.g., RADS) is through persistent TRPV1 channel activation (e.g., TRPV1pathy) with accumulation of inflammatory mediators, tachykinins, and the release of neurotrophins leading to persistent cough and airway inflammation. The significance of the hypothesis is that, if proven, it may provide new therapeutic approaches for the treatment of chronic cough.
The acquisition of ion channels is critical to the formation of neuronal pathways in the peripheral and central nervous systems. This study describes the different types of inward currents (Ii) recorded from the soma of isolated cochleovestibular ganglion (CVG) cells of the embryonic chicken, Gallus gallus. Cells were isolated for whole-cell tight-seal recording from embryonic day (ED) 3, an age when the CVG is a cell cluster, to ED 9, an age when the cochlear and vestibular ganglia (CG, VG) are distinct structures. Results show Na+ and Ca2+ currents (INa and ICa) are acquired by ED 3, although INa dominates with greater density levels that peak by ED 6-7 in VG neurons. In the CG, INa acquisition is slower, reaching peak values by ED 8-9. Isolation of ICa, using Ba2+ as the charge carrier, showed both transient (IBaT)- and sustained (IBaL)-type currents on ED 3. Unlike INa, IBa density varied with age and ganglion. Total IBa increased steadily, showing a decline only in CG cells on ED 8-9 as a result of a decrease in IBaT. IBaL density increased over time, reaching a maximum on ED 6-7 in VG cells, followed by a decline on ED 8-9. In comparison, IBaL in CG neurons, did not increase significantly beyond mean values measured on ED 5. The early onset of these currents and the variations in Ca2+ channel expression between the ganglia suggests that intracellular signals relevant to phenotypic differentiation begin within these early time frames.
Since the discovery of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) more than 20 years ago, numerous studies have focused on the mechanisms regulating ANP secretion. From a physiological standpoint, the most important factor governing ANP secretion is mechanical stretching of the atria, which normally occurs when extracellular fluid volume or blood volume is elevated. In addition, the ability of several vasoconstrictors to increase ANP secretion can be traced to their indirect effects on atrial stretch via increases in cardiac preload or afterload. Whether vasoconstrictors such as angiotensin II and vasopressin have a direct positive or negative effect on ANP secretion has not been determined with certainty. Two paracrine factors derived from endothelial cells play important roles in modulating ANP secretion. Endothelin, a potent vasoconstrictor, stimulates ANP secretion and augments stretch induced ANP secretion. The dramatic increase in ANP release produced by cardiac ischemia appears to be mediated in part by endothelin. Nitric oxide (NO), an important vasodilator, is also produced by endothelial cells and inhibits ANP secretion acting through cyclic GMP as an intracellular messenger. Several recent studies have helped to define the cellular mechanism contributing to regulation of ANP secretion including stretch-activated ion channels, prostaglandins, cytochrome P450, G proteins and cell calcium. A number of steps in the cellular transduction of the ANP signal remain to be resolved. The release of ANP in disease states such as myocardial infarction and heart failure appears to be related to both mechanical and cellular events.
Calcyclin (S100A6) is a cell-specific, calcium binding protein of the S100 family whose expression is augmented in many types of cancer. By means of luciferase activity assays, RT-PCR and Northern blot hybridization, we established that transcription of S100A6 gene is increased by agents known to evoke oxidative stress. Mutation of the antioxidant response element (ARE) located at position -290/-281 of the calcyclin gene promoter, and overlapping the E-box sequence recognized by the upstream stimulatory factor (USF), led to inhibition of calcyclin gene promoter activity stimulated by cadmium ions. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) with the -302/-260 calcyclin gene promoter fragment revealed, apart from USF binding, the presence of another protein complex (N) shown by competitive EMSA to be bound to ARE. DNA affinity chromatography followed by Western blot showed the binding of Nrf2 transcription factor to the immobilized calcyclin gene promoter fragment and concomitant appearance of complex N in EMSA of the eluted fractions. The results indicate that agents evoking oxidative stress activate calcyclin gene via the ARE sequence in its promoter.
The potency and mechanism of action of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) for producing coronary vasodilation was investigated in the isolated perfused heart of the rat. VIP reduced coronary vascular resistance in a dose-dependent manner, starting at 1 x 10(-10) M, and maximally reduced coronary vascular resistance by 49% at 1 x 10(-8) M. The potency of VIP for reducing coronary vascular resistance (EC50=3.02 x 10(-10) M) was considerably greater than that of adenosine (EC50=6.17 x 10(-8) M) and sodium nitroprusside (EC50=2.45 x 10(-6) M). The vasodilatory action of VIP was more easily observed after increasing vascular tone by perfusion of the hearts with a modified physiological solution containing reduced concentrations of potassium (3.2 mM) and calcium (1.2 mM). Under these conditions, VIP maximally reduced coronary resistance by 54% at 7 x 10(-9) M. The potency of VIP for reducing coronary resistance in these hearts, however, decreased 16-fold (EC50=4.90 x 10(-9) M) while that of SNP remained unaltered (EC50=3.39 x 10(-6) M), compared with hearts perfused with higher levels of potassium (5.9 mM) and calcium (2.5 mM). The vasodilatory effect of VIP occurred without a significant change in heart rate, myocardial contractility or oxygen consumption. In additional studies, the dose-dependent effect of VIP on cyclic nucleotide release from the heart was determined by infusing VIP into the coronary circulation in a cumulative fashion to produce final concentrations between 1 x 10(-11) and 1 x 10(-9) M. VIP increased cyclic AMP at 1 x 10(-9) M but did not increase cyclic GMP. Studies using RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry clearly demonstrated the presence of two VIP receptor subtypes, VPAC1 and VPAC2, in the arteries and arterioles of the heart. In conclusion, VIP is a potent vasodilator in the coronary circulation of the rat and the role of VIP in the control of coronary vascular resistance depends on the circulating levels of potassium and calcium. This vasodilatory effect involves binding to specific coronary cell surface receptors, VPAC1 and/or VPAC2, and is dependent on cyclic AMP only during maximal vasodilation.
Nitric oxide (NO) production by endothelial cells in response to bradykinin (Bk) treatment was markedly and synergistically enhanced by cotreatment with sodium orthovanadate (vanadate), a phosphotyrosine phosphatase inhibitor. This enhancement was blocked by tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Calcium ionophore- (A23187) activated production of NO was also enhanced by cotreatment with vanadate. No significant changes were found in total endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) protein or in eNOS distribution between membrane (caveolae) and cytosolic fractions in response to the various treatments. Vanadate had no direct effect on eNOS activity, and lysates prepared from cells treated with vanadate showed little change in specific activity of eNOS. Western blots of immunoprecipitated eNOS showed the presence of a major tyrosine-phosphorylated protein band at a mass corresponding to approximately 125 kDa and 2 minor bands corresponding to approximately 105 and 75 kDa after treatment with vanadate/Bk. No tyrosine phosphorylation of eNOS after treatment with vanadate/Bk was observed. Geldanamycin, an inhibitor of heat shock protein 90, also inhibited the enhancement of NO production by vanadate/Bk or vanadate/A23187, and there was an increase in the amount of heat shock protein 90 that coimmunoprecipitated with eNOS after treatment with vanadate/Bk. These results show that there is a clear link between tyrosine phosphorylation and stimulation of eNO production, which does not appear to involve direct modification of eNOS, changes in eNOS levels, or compartmentation, but rather appears to be due to changes in proteins associating with eNOS, thereby enhancing the state of activation of eNOS.
The functional importance of Ca++ activated K+ (K(Ca)) channels in cGMP mediated relaxation of pressurized septal arteries (internal basal diameter 213 +/- 4 microm) was investigated. Vascular tone was increased by the thromboxane A2 analogue, U-46619 and internal pressure was maintained at 60 mmHg. Vessels were tested with an endothelium independent agonist (nitroprusside) and endothelium dependent agonist (acetylcholine) of nitric oxide which activates soluble guanylate cyclase. Receptor activation of particulate guanylate cyclase was tested by atrial natriuretic peptide. Direct changes in intracellular cGMP concentration were done with the cell permeable analog, 8-Bromo-cGMP. Tetraethylammonium ion (TEA+), 1 mM, significantly inhibited relaxation to nitroprusside from 10(-7) to 10(-3) M with a maximal inhibition of 53 +/- 8% at 10(-3) M. Relaxation to acetylcholine from 10(-9) M to 10(-5) M was significantly inhibited by TEA+ with a maximal inhibition of 52 +/- 13% at 10(-7) M. TEA+ significantly inhibited relaxation to 8-Bromo-cGMP from 10(-6) M to 10(-3) M with a maximal inhibition of 59 +/- 14% at 10(-4) M. The relaxation response to atrial natriuretic peptide from 10(-12) M to 10(-7) M was significantly inhibited by TEA+ with a maximal inhibition of 84 +/- 5% at 10(-11) M. The large conductance K(Ca) channel blocker, iberiotoxin, eliminated the relaxation response to 8-Bromo-cGMP (10(-3) M). The results suggest that a large portion of the dilator action of cGMP is mediated by effects on K+ membrane channels.
The hypothesis for this study is that block of calcium activated potassium (KCa) channels inhibits cAMP induced relaxation in pressurized rat coronary resistance arteries. Pressure-diameter experiments with septal arteries (200-270 microns internal diameter at 60 mmHg and maximum dilation) showed significant basal tone over a range of pressure from 40-120 mmHg. The level of tone was increased with the thromboxane A2 analogue 9,11-dideoxy-11 alpha, 9 alpha-epoxy-methanoprostaglandin F2 alpha (U46619) in all experiments. Receptor activation of the cAMP pathway was done with adenosine (ADO) and isoproterenol (ISO). Tetraethylammonium ion (TEA+), 1mM, significantly inhibited relaxation to ADO (10(-6)-10(-3)M) with a maximal inhibition of 75 +/- 7% (as a % of maximum diameter change with the vasodilator alone) at 10(-3)M ADO. TEA+ inhibited ISO (10(-6)M) relaxation by 63 +/- 9%. Direct activation of the cAMP pathway was done with forskolin and 8-bromo-cAMP. TEA+ significantly inhibited forskolin (10(-6)-10(-4)M) induced relaxation with a maximal inhibition of 81.3 +/- 1.2% at 10(-4)M forskolin. TEA+ and iberiotoxin (10(-7)M) significantly inhibited 8- bromo-cAMP (10(-3)M) induced relaxation by 72 +/- 5% and 56 +/- 3% respectively. The effect of TEA+ on relaxation induced by nitroprusside (a cGMP dependent vasodilator) was not significant. The results show that rat coronary resistance arteries possess significant myogenic tone and modulation of Kca channels plays a major role in cAMP mediated relaxation.
PELP1 is a novel coregulator of nuclear hormone receptors and is implicated in playing a role in driving breast cancer and enhancing metastatic potential. The PELP1 protein expression and potential role of PELP1 in triple-negative breast carcinoma (TNBC) have not been well characterized. We investigated PELP1 expression by immunohistochemistry in primary and metastatic triple-negative tumors in human tissues and compared its expression with GATA-binding protein 3 (GATA3), a novel diagnostic marker for TNBC. We examined the expression of PELP1 and GATA3 in 70 primary TNBC cases and found that PELP1 had a significantly higher frequency of expression compared to GATA3 (96% versus 46%; P < .0001). The mean extent score of expression of PELP1 was also significantly higher than GATA3's expression (3.87 ± 0.07 versus 0.91 ± 0.15; P < .0001). PELP1 had stronger staining intensity than GATA3. Furthermore, PELP1 immunoreactivity was consistently maintained in paired primary and metastatic TNBC cases (100%). The frequency of PELP1 expression (100%) in metastatic triple-negative tumors was higher than that of GATA3 (40%) in the same tumors (P < .0001). These findings indicate that PELP1 is a much more sensitive marker than GATA3 for TNBCs. PELP1 may have diagnostic utility for metastatic TNBC in appropriate settings, such as history of primary TNBC in cases where the primary is negative for GATA3, mammaglobin, and GCDFP-15. The diffuse and strong nuclear immunoreactivity of PELP1 in most cases suggests that PELP1 may be a molecular target for the treatment of TNBC. We hope that this study will provide insights into the role of PELP1 in TNBC.
An inhibitor of 3T3-L1 adipocyte differentiation was isolated from Streptomyces sp. TK08330 and identified by spectroscopy as the 18-membered macrolide borrelidin. Treatment with 1.0 μM borrelidin suppressed intracellular lipid accumulation by 80% and inhibited the expression of adipocyte-specific genes. Borrelidin suppressed the mRNA expression of two master regulators of adipocyte differentiation, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBPα). Studies on well-known upstream regulators of PPARγ revealed that borrelidin down-regulated C/EBPδ mRNA expression but did not affect expression of C/EBPβ. Borrelidin increased mRNA expression of negative regulators of differentiation such as GATA-binding protein (GATA) 3, Krüppel-like factor (KLF) 3 and KLF7, as well as positive regulators, KLF4, KLF6 and KLF15, at early stages of differentiation. To elucidate a primary mediator of borrelidin differentiation inhibitory activity, small interfering RNA (siRNA) transfection experiments were performed. The mRNA expression of PPARγ, which was down-regulated by borrelidin, was not changed by KLF3 and KLF7 siRNA treatment. In contrast, expression of PPARγ in GATA-3 siRNA-treated cells was not significantly different from that of control siRNA-treated cells. Borrelidin significantly inhibited lipid accumulation in control siRNA-treated cells, and treatment with GATA-3 siRNA slightly reduced the inhibitory effect of borrelidin. These results indicate that borrelidin inhibited adipocyte differentiation partially via GATA-3.
Mast cell (MC) degranulation is the foundation of the acute phase of allergic rhinitis (AR). Previously, downregulation of GATA binding protein 3 (GATA-3) was shown to suppress MC activation in an AR mouse model. Binding of microRNA-135a (miR-135a) to GATA-3 was also observed, and overexpression of this miRNA decreased GATA-3 mRNA and protein expression. However, the effects of miR-135a on MCs during AR are currently unknown. In the present study, we utilized a lentiviral (LV) vector to intranasally administer miR-135a to ovalbumin (OVA)-sensitized AR mice. Following miR-135a treatment, the total serum IgE concentration observed during AR was significantly reduced. In the nasal mucosa, the expression of T-box expressed in T cells (T-bet) was higher, whereas that of GATA-3 was lower in the AR mice following miRNA treatment. Notably, during AR, the ratio of type 1 T-helper cells (Th1) to type 2 (Th2) cells in the spleen is unbalanced, favoring Th2. However, administering miR-135a to the AR mice appeared to balance this ratio by increasing and decreasing the percentage of Th1 and Th2 cells, respectively. MiR-135a also appeared to strongly suppress the infiltration of eosinophils and MCs into the nasal mucosa, and it was specifically localized in the MCs, suggesting that its influence is modulated through regulation of GATA-3 in these cells. Additional work identifying the full therapeutic potential of miR-135a in the treatment of AR and diseases involving allergen-induced inflammation is warranted.
Type 2 (Th2) immune responses play important roles in intestinal immunity by contributing to the maintenance of mucosal homeostasis, not only conferring protection against helminthic infection but also participating in pro-inflammatory pathways in chronic intestinal inflammatory disorders, including inflammatory bowel disease. The current review focuses on recent developments regarding the role of Th2 responses in intestinal inflammation.
Th2 gut mucosal responses are promoted by mediators that are released following injury to the epithelium, and act as alarmin-type danger signals. Interleukin (IL)-33 is prominent among such factors and demonstrates a dichotomous function, exerting either protective or pro-inflammatory effects, depending on its cellular compartmentalization. The pool of type 2 effector cells has been enriched recently to include not only classical CD4+ Th2 lymphocytes but also a subset of innate lymphocytes (ILC2s) that express the transcriptional factor GATA binding protein 3 and secrete IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13. ILC2s play important roles during infection with helminths and bi-directionally interact with Th2 CD4+ lymphocytes, thus establishing a transition from innate to adaptive immunological pathways. Th2 responses are also involved in pro-inflammatory pathways at the intestinal mucosa, and neutralization of the pivotal cytokines IL-4 and IL-13 has been shown to regulate experimental intestinal inflammation. In striking contrast, however, neutralization of human IL-13 had no therapeutic effect in patients with ulcerative colitis.
Further studies will be required to delineate the specific mechanisms of type 2 mucosal immunity in inflammatory bowel disease and examine the applicability of Th2-targeted therapies for intestinal inflammation.
Female adnexal tumors of probable wolffian origin (FATWOs) are rare. They can closely mimic endometrioid adenocarcinomas with a prominent spindle cell component and Sertoli cell tumors (SCTs). To further define their immunohistochemical profile and origin, we investigated the expression of PAX-8, PAX-2, and GATA binding protein 3 (GATA-3) (wolffian markers) and of steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1) (sex-cord stromal marker) in FATWOs. We also studied the expression of PAX-8 and PAX-2 in endometrioid adenocarcinomas; of SF-1 in Sertoli-Leydig cell and SCTs; and of PAX-8, PAX-2, GATA-3, and SF-1 in rete ovarii-a proposed site of origin for FATWOs. A database search yielded 8 FATWOs, 18 ovarian/tubal/paraovarian endometrioid adenocarcinomas, and 8 ovarian Sertoli-Leydig cell and SCTs. Eleven cases with rete ovarii sections were included. Of the FATWOs studied, all were negative for PAX-8, PAX-2, GATA-3, and SF-1. Of the endometrioid adenocarcinomas studied, PAX-8 was positive in all and PAX-2 was positive in 57%. Of the Sertoli-Leydig cell and SCTs, all were positive for SF-1 except one. The rete ovarii were positive for PAX-8, weakly positive for SF-1, and negative for PAX-2 and GATA-3. Our study suggests that PAX-8 and SF-1 can be helpful in the distinction between FATWOs and endometrioid adenocarcinomas and SCTs, respectively. Our results do not support a Mullerian or sex-cord stromal or rete ovarii origin for FATWOs. It is curious, however, that FATWOs do not express wolffian markers-it is possibly related to their origin from a distinctive portion of the wolffian duct.
To analyze the immunological characteristics of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis model and examine the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of Astragalus polysaccharides (APS) treatment.
Thirty-two male specififi c pathogen free Spragne-Dawley rats were randomly equally assigned to four groups: control, TNBS, APS and prednisone groups. Experimental colitis was induced by enema administration of TNBS. Then rats were treated with APS (0.5 g•kg(-1)•day(-1), once daily) or prednisone (1.0 mg•kg(-1)•day(-1), once daily) by gavage for 14 days. Macroscopic lesion and histological damage were determined, and activity of myeloperoxidase (MPO) was measured in the colonic tissues. Expressions of T-box expressed in T-cells (T-bet) and GATA-binding protein-3 (GATA-3) were determined by immunohistochemistry analysis and western blot.
Both macroscopic lesion and histological colonic damage induced by TNBS were reduced by APS and prednisone treatment. These were accompanied by significant attenuation of MPO activity (P=0.03). TNBS intervention enhanced the expression of both GATA-3 and T-bet, but the expression of T-bet was signififi cantly enhanced than that of GATA-3, resulting in signififi cant reduction of GATA-3/T-bet ratio (P=0.025). APS administration enhanced the expression of T-bet (P=0.04) and GATA-3 (P=0.019) in comparison to TNBS group, and resulting in an up-regulated GATA-3/T-bet ratio. Prednisone treatment inhibited both expressions; however it also resulted in up-regulation of the GATA-3/T-bet ratio.
These results demonstrated that APS exerted a benefifi cial immune regulatory effect on experimental colitis. It promoted the expression of T helper cell 1 (Th1) and T helper cell 2 (Th2) specififi c transcription factors but ultimately favor a shift toward Th2 phenotype, suggesting that APS possessed therapeutic potential in experimental colitis.
The distinction between metastatic breast carcinomas (BCs) and primary lung carcinomas (PLCs) can be difficult. This study tested the utility of trefoil factor 1 (TFF1) for this purpose and compared it with mammaglobin and GATA protein binding 3 (GATA-3).
Tissue microarrays containing 365 BCs and 338 PLCs were stained with TFF1, mammaglobin, and GATA-3, and an H-score was calculated. Sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were calculated, and logistical regression analysis was performed.
Accuracy of correctly classifying the tumor type was 81.9%, 71.3%, and 64.0% for GATA-3, mammaglobin, and TFF1, respectively. Odds ratios for selecting BCs were 25.69, 93.15, and 4.17, respectively, with P values less than .001. With a single exception, the best immunopanel included GATA-3 and mammaglobin in all comparisons.
TFF1 demonstrated breast specificity but was inferior to mammaglobin and GATA-3. Therefore, its routine clinical use may not be justified. TFF1 showed little benefit when added to an immunopanel.
Currently, impacts of exposure to TiO2 nanoparticles (NPs) on the cardiovascular system are not well understood. The aim of this study was to investigate whether TiO2 NPs induce myocarditis and its underlying molecular mechanism in the cardiac inflammation in mice. Mice were exposed to TiO2 NPs for 6 months; biochemical parameters of serum and expression of Th1-related and Th2-related cytokines in the heart were investigated. The results showed that TiO2 NP exposure resulted in cardiac lesions coupling with pulmonary inflammation; increases of aspartate aminotransferase (AST), creatine kinase (CK), C-reaction protein (CRP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), alpha-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (HBDH), adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) levels; and a reduction of nitric oxide (NOx) level in the serum. These were associated with increases of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin (IL)-4, IL-6, transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), creatine kinase, CRP, adhesion molecule-1, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, interferon-γ (IFN-γ), signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT)1, STAT3, or STAT6, GATA-binding domain-3, GATA-binding domain-4, endothelin-1 expression levels, and T-box expressed in T cells expression level that is the master regulator of pro-inflammatory cytokines and transcription factors in the heart. These findings imply that TiO2 NP exposure may increase the occurrence and development of cardiovascular diseases.
Metaplastic squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the breast is a rare type of breast cancer. Metastases to the lung, which can be a major site of second primary tumor development among breast cancer patients, are difficult to distinguish from primary SCC of the lung and present a unique challenge for pathologists. There are few available discriminating immunohistochemical markers as squamous differentiation typically leads to loss of expression of characteristic primary epithelial cell markers of both breast and lung origin. GATA protein binding 3 (GATA-3) is a useful marker of breast origin in metastatic ductal and lobular carcinomas including poorly differentiated triple-negative carcinomas and some metaplastic carcinomas. Here, we present a case of metastatic SCC presenting as a solitary lung mass with regional lymph node metastases and a single satellite lesion in a patient with a history of metaplastic SCC of the breast. In addition to the routine markers of squamous differentiation, the metastases were also positive for estrogen receptor (ER) and GATA-3 on cytologic material obtained by transbronchial FNA. This suggests that immunoreactivity for ER and GATA-3 may support a diagnosis of metastatic SCC in the context of a prior metaplastic SCC of the breast. Diagn. Cytopathol. 2015;43:844-849. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The MDS1 and ecotropic viral integration site 1 (EVI1) complex locus (MECOM) gene encodes several transcription factor variants including MDS1-EVI1, EVI1 and EVI1Δ324. Although MDS1-EVI1 has been associated with tumor-suppressing activity, EVI1 is a known oncogene in various cancers, whose expression is associated with poor patient survival. Although EVI1Δ324 is co-transcribed with EVI1, its activity in cancer cells is not fully understood. Previous reports described that unlike EVI1, EVI1Δ324 protein cannot transform fibroblasts because of its disrupted N-terminal zinc finger (ZNF) domain. To better understand EVI1Δ324 biology and function, we obtained genome-wide binding occupancies and expression data in ovarian cancer cells. We characterized its DNA-binding sites, binding motif and target genes. Comparative analyses with previous study show that EVI1 and EVI1Δ324 share similar transcriptional activities linked to their common C-terminus ZNF domain. They bind to an E-twenty-six family (ETS)-like motif, target to a large extent the same genes and cooperate with AP1 transcription factor. EVI1Δ324-occupied genes were 70.7% similar to EVI1-bound genes. More strikingly, EVI1 and EVI1Δ324 differentially expressed genes were 99.87% identical, indicating comparable transcriptional regulatory functions. Consistently with gene ontologies linked to these target genes, EVI1Δ324 expression in HeLa cells could enhance anchorage-independent growth, such as EVI1, showing that EVI1Δ324 expression also lead to pro-oncogenic effects. The main specific feature of EVI1 variant is its N-terminus ZNF domain that binds DNA through GATA-like motif. We found that most GATA-like EVI1 chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing peaks are far from genes and are not involved in transcriptional regulation. These genomic regions were enriched in simple sequence repeats and displayed high meiotic recombination rates. Overall, our genomics analyses uncovered common and specific features of two major MECOM isoforms. Their influence on transcription and downstream cell proliferation was comparable. However, EVI1-specific GATA-like binding sites, from its N-terminus ZNF domain, associated with high recombination rates, suggesting possible additional oncogenic potential for EVI1 in modulating genomic stability.Oncogene advance online publication, 3 August 2015; doi:10.1038/onc.2015.286.
Although Down syndrome (DS) patients have a higher risk of developing transient myeloproliferative disorder (TMD) and acute leukemia, very little data is available on long-term outcome in Taiwanese patients. The current study was designed to determine the clinical characteristics and treatment outcome of DS patients with TMD or acute leukemia (AL).
In 25 consecutive DS patients with TMD or AL enrolled from 1990 to 2012, clinical manifestations and treatment protocols were investigated and GATA1 (GATA binding protein 1) mutations were identified. Among 16 DS-acute myeloid leukemia (DS-AML) patients, clinical outcomes were compared between survivors and nonsurvivors.
Most of our DS patients had TMD (32%), acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (24%), or acute erythromegakaryoblastic leukemia (16%). The median follow-up time was 22.5 months (1-230 months). The age was younger and the hemoglobin (Hb) level and platelet count were higher in TMD patients than in leukemia patients. Among DS-AML patients, the Hb level was higher in survivors than nonsurvivors (8.8 ± 2.7 g/dL vs. 5.8 ± 2.4 g/dL; p = 0.044) and the age was older in relapsed patients than in nonrelapsed patients (43.8 ± 18 months old vs. 21.6 ± 8.6 months old; p = 0.025). The 3-year overall survival (OS) rate was 44%, higher in patients receiving appropriate chemotherapy than in those receiving inadequate treatment (63.6% vs. 0%, p = 0.001), and higher in those diagnosed with TMD or AL after 2008 than before 2008 (33.3% vs. 75%; p = 0.119).
Outcome in DS-AML patients is optimal if appropriate treatment is provided. With modification of the treatment strategy in 2008, OS increased in Taiwan.
Transforming growth factor (TGF)-β and interleukin (IL)-13 play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of systemic sclerosis (SSc), partly through activation of collagen production that leads to fibrosis. The aim of the present study was to determine whether TFG-β alters IL-13 production in T lymphocytes from patients with SSc from that seen in those of healthy donors.
IL-13 mRNA and protein synthesis under TFG-β exposure was measured in circulating T lymphocytes from healthy donors and patients with SSc and also in the Jurkat Th2 T-cell line, using quantitative real-time PCR and fluorescence-activated cell sorting analysis, respectively. The involvement of Smad and GATA-3 transcription factors was assessed by using specific inhibitors and small interfering RNA, and the binding capacity of GATA-3 to the IL-13 gene promoter was evaluated by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay.
TGF-β induced a significant decrease in IL-13 mRNA and protein levels in lymphocytes from healthy donors (mean [±SD] inhibition of 30% ± 10% and 20% ± 7%, respectively; p < 0.05). In contrast, TGF-β promoted a significant increase in IL-13 mRNA levels and IL-13 synthesis by CD4(+) and CD8(+) T-cell subtypes from patients with SSc, with respective increases of 2.4 ± 0.3-fold, 1.6 ± 0.05-fold and 2.7 ± 0.02-fold. The involvement of the Smad signaling pathway and upregulation of GATA-3 binding capacity on the IL-13 promoter in lymphocytes from patients with SSc contributed to the effect of TGF-β on IL-13 production.
These results demonstrate that TGF-β upregulates IL-13 synthesis through GATA-3 expression in the T lymphocytes of patients with SSc, confirming that the GATA-3 transcription factor can be regarded as a novel therapeutic target in patients with SSc.
Osteoprotegerin (OPG) is a key regulator of bone remodeling. Mutations in OPG are involved in a variety of human diseases. We have shown that cochlear spiral ganglion cells secrete OPG at high levels and lack of OPG causes sensorineural hearing loss in addition to the previously described conductive hearing loss. In order to study the regulation of OPG expression, we conducted a database search on regulatory elements in the promoter region of the OPG gene, and identified two potential GATA-3 binding sites. Using luciferase assays and site directed mutagenesis, we demonstrate that these two elements are GATA-3 responsive and support GATA-3 transactivation in human HEK and HeLa cells. The expression of wild type GATA-3 activated OPG mRNA and protein expression, while the expression of a dominant negative mutant of GATA-3 or a GATA-3 shRNA construct reduced OPG mRNA and protein levels. GATA-3 deficient cells generated by expressing a GATA-3 shRNA construct were sensitive to apoptosis induced by etoposide and TNF-α. This apoptotic effect could be partly prevented by the co-treatment with exogenous OPG. Our results suggest new approaches to rescue diseases due to GATA-3 deficiency - such as in hypoparathyroidism, sensorineural deafness, and renal (HDR) syndrome - by OPG therapy.
Vesical pleomorphic giant cell carcinoma (PGCC) is a variant of urothelial carcinoma (UC) characterized by highly pleomorphic tumour with giant cells. Fewer than 10 cases have been reported, and our aim was to determine the clinical and pathological features of a series of tumours from a specialized uropathology laboratory.
Thirteen cases of PGCC of the bladder were identified. There were nine males and four females, ranging in age from 53 to 92 years (mean 72 years). Associated conventional high-grade UC was seen in eight cases, while three cases also had micropapillary UC and one plasmacytoid UC. UC in situ (CIS) was present in five cases and occasional bizarre cells were seen in both UC and CIS. The proportion of PGCC present varied from 40% to 100% of tumour. Immunostaining performed on 10 cases showed uniform positivity for CK 8/18 and AE1/AE3, while most tumours were positive for CK7, CK20, uroplakin III and GATA binding protein 3 (GATA3). β-human chorionic gonadotrophin (β-hCG) was negative. Of 10 patients with follow-up, five died within 1 year and four are alive with tumour.
The association of PGCC with UC and an overlap in immunoexpression suggests that PGCC represents an extreme form of UC de-differentiation.
Our laboratory established a role for poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase (PARP) in asthma. To increase the clinical significance of our studies, it is imperative to demonstrate that PARP is actually activated in human asthma, to examine whether a PARP inhibitor approved for human testing such as olaparib blocks already-established chronic asthma traits in response to house dust mite (HDM), a true human allergen, in mice and to examine whether the drug modulates human cluster of differentiation type 4 (CD4(+)) T-cell function. To conduct the study, human lung specimens and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and a HDM-based mouse asthma model were used. Our results show that PARP is activated in PBMCs and lung tissues of asthmatics. PARP inhibition by olaparib or gene knockout blocked established asthma-like traits in mice chronically exposed to HDM including airway eosinophilia and hyper-responsiveness. These effects were linked to a marked reduction in T helper 2 (Th2) cytokine production without a prominent effect on interferon (IFN)-γ or interleukin (IL)-10. PARP inhibition prevented HDM-induced increase in overall cellularity, weight and CD4(+) T-cell population in spleens of treated mice whereas it increased the T-regulatory cell population. In CD3/CD28-stimulated human CD4 (+)T-cells, olaparib treatment reduced Th2 cytokine production potentially by modulating GATA binding protein-3 (gata-3)/IL-4 expression while moderately affecting T-cell proliferation. PARP inhibition inconsistently increased IL-17 in HDM-exposed mice and CD3/CD28-stimulated CD4(+) T cells without a concomitant increase in factors that can be influenced by IL-17. In the present study, we provide evidence for the first time that PARP-1 is activated in human asthma and that its inhibition is effective in blocking established asthma in mice.
A better understanding of the mechanism and manipulation of the tightly regulated cellular differentiation process of adipogenesis may contribute to a reduction in obesity and diabetes. Multiple transcription factors and signaling pathways are involved in the regulation of adipogenesis. Here, we report that the AMP-activated protein kinase activator, 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleoside (AICAR) can activate AMPK in preadipocytes and thus increase the expression of GATA3, an anti-adipogenic factor. However, AICAR-increased GATA3 is mediated by the stimulation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling in preadipocytes. Mechanistically, AICAR-activated AMPK inhibits GSK3β through a phosphorylation process that stabilizes β-catenin. This stabilized β-catenin then translocates into nucleus where it interacts with T-cell factors (TCF), leading to the increased β-catenin/TCF transcriptional activity that induces GATA3 expression. In addition, AICAR also relieves the repressing effect of the C-terminal-binding protein (CtBP) co-repressor by diverting CtBP away from the β-catenin·TCF complex at the GATA3 promoter. The anti-adipogenic effect of GATA3 and AICAR is consistently attenuated by the disruption of Wnt/β-catenin signaling. Furthermore, GATA3 suppresses key adipogenic regulators by binding to the promoters of these regulators, such as the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPARγ) gene, and the disruption of Wnt/β-catenin signaling reduces the GATA3 binding at the PPARγ promoter. In differentiated adipocytes, GATA3 expression inhibition is facilitated by the down-regulation of β-catenin levels, the reduction in β-catenin binding, and the increase in CtBP binding at the GATA3 promoter. Our findings shed light on the molecular mechanism of adipogenesis by suggesting that different regulation pathways and adipogenic regulators collectively modulate adipocyte differentiation through cross-talk.
A key question in cancer systems biology is how to use molecular data to predict the biological behavior of tumors from individual patients. While genomics data have been heavily used, protein signaling data are more directly connected to biological phenotype and might predict cancer phenotypes such as invasion, metastasis, and patient survival. In this study, we mined publicly available data for colorectal adenocarcinoma from the Cancer Genome Atlas and identified protein expression and signaling changes that are statistically associated with patient outcome. Our analysis identified a number of known and potentially new regulators of colorectal cancer. High levels of insulin growth factor binding protein 2 (IGFBP2) were associated with both recurrence and death, and this was validated by immunohistochemical staining of a tissue microarray for a secondary patient dataset. Interestingly, GATA binding protein 3 (GATA3) was the protein most frequently associated with death in our analysis, and GATA3 expression was significantly decreased in tumor samples from stage I-II deceased patients. Experimental studies using engineered colon cancer cell lines show that exogenous expression of GATA3 decreases three-dimensional colony growth and invasiveness of colon cancer cells but does not affect two-dimensional proliferation. These findings suggest that protein data are useful for biomarker discovery and identify GATA3 as a regulator of colorectal cancer  aggressiveness.
3T3-L1 cells are preadipocytes and often used as a model for cellular differentiation to adipocytes; however, the mechanism of this differentiation is not completely understood even in these model cells. In this study, we sought to identify a unique anti-adipogenesis agent from microorganisms and to examine its mechanism of action to gain knowledge and create a tool and/or seed compound for anti-obesity drug discovery research.
Screening for anti-adipogenesis agents from microorganisms was performed using a 3T3-L1 cell differentiation system, and an active compound was isolated. The inhibitory mechanism of the compound was investigated by measuring the expression of key regulators using quantitative real-time PCR and Western blot analysis.
The compound with anti-adipogenic activity in 3T3-L1 cells was identified as cineromycin B. Cineromycin B at 50μg/mL suppressed intracellular lipid accumulation and the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBPα), which are master regulators of adipocyte differentiation. Further investigations showed that cineromycin B increased significantly the mRNA expression of two negative regulators of adipocyte differentiation, Krüppel-like factor (KLF) 2 and KLF3, at an early stage of the differentiation. The results of siRNA transfection experiments indicated that cineromycin B is a unique adipocyte differentiation inhibitor, acting mainly via upregulation of KLF2 and KLF3, and these KLFs may play a role in the early stage of differentiation.
Cineromycin B inhibited adipocyte differentiation in 3T3-L1 cells mainly via upregulation of KLF2 and KLF3 mRNA expression at an early stage of the differentiation.
Objective To explore the mechanism of beta2 glycoprotein I (β2GPI)-caused T helper cell subset differentiation and anti-β2GPI antibody (aβ2GPI Ab) production in mice. Methods The healthy BALB/c mice were randomly divided into two groups: normal saline (NS) group and β2GPI group. The mice were immunized i.v. with either human β2GPI or equal amount of NS for a total of two or four times at 2-week intervals. The titer of aβ2GPI Ab in mice serum was evaluated by indirect ELISA. The expressions of GATA binding protein 3 (GATA3), interleukin 4 (IL-4), T-box expressed in T cells (T-bet), interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and Foxp3 mRNAs in mouse splenic cells were detected by real-time quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR), and the percentage of GATA3(+) or Foxp3(+) cells in lymphocytes of mouse spleen was detected by flow cytometry. Results The high titer (1:100 000) of aβ2GPI Ab was detected in mouse serum following the two times of immunization with β2GPI. The expressions of Th2 specific markers GATA3 and IL-4 mRNAs and the percentage of GATA3(+) cells in lymphocytes were higher than those of NS treated group. After four times of immunization with β2GPI, the titer of aβ2GPI Ab in mouse serum was elevated to a higher level (>1:100 000). The expressions of GATA3, Th1 specific markers T-bet and IFN-γ, and regulatory T cell (Treg) specific marker Foxp3 mRNAs in mouse spleen cells, but no significant change was found in IL-4 mRNA expression. Furthermore, the percentage of GATA3(+) cells in mouse spleen increased, while the percentage of Foxp3(+) cells decreased. Conclusion β2GPI immunization could induce Th2 cell bias polarization and Th1 cell and Treg suppression in mice, which might contribute to the production of aβ2GPI Ab.
Tumors of trophoblastic derivation other than choriocarcinoma are very rare in the testis but have been reported on occasion in association with other germ cell tumors. Their morphologic spectrum is analogous to the trophoblastic tumors of the female genital tract including epithelioid trophoblastic tumor (ETT) and placental site trophoblastic tumor (PSTT). Herein we report our experience with 8 cases of trophoblastic tumors of testicular origin that lacked the features of choriocarcinoma; these included 4 ETTs, 1 PSTT, 1 unclassified trophoblastic tumor (UTT), 1 partially regressed choriocarcinoma with a monophasic morphology, and 1 hybrid tumor showing a mixture of adenocarcinoma and a UTT. All tumors occurred in young men 19 to 43 years old. Five arose de novo within the testis (2 ETTs, 1 UTT, 1 regressing choriocarcinoma, and the hybrid tumor) as a component of mixed germ cell tumors, and 3 (2 ETTs and 1 PSTT) were found in metastatic sites after chemotherapy. The trophoblastic component was minor (5% to 10%) in 6 tumors but was 95% of 1 metastatic tumor (ETT) and 50% of the hybrid tumor. Other germ cell tumor elements were identified in all cases, most commonly teratoma. The ETTs consisted of nodules and nests of squamoid trophoblast cells showing abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm, frequent apoptotic cells, extracellular fibrinoid material, and positivity for p63 and negativity for human placental lactogen (HPL). The PSTT showed sheets of discohesive, pleomorphic, mononucleated trophoblast cells that invaded blood vessels with fibrinoid change and were p63 negative and HPL positive. The UTT showed a spectrum of small and large trophoblast cells, some multinucleated but lacking distinct syncytiotrophoblasts, and was patchily positive for both p63 and HPL. The hybrid tumor had ETT-like and adenocarcinomatous areas that coexpressed inhibin and GATA3 but were negative for p63 and HPL, leading to classification of the trophoblastic component as UTT. Seven of the patients were alive and well on follow-up (8 to 96 mo; median, 39 mo), whereas the patient with the hybrid tumor died of liver metastases at 2 years. Our study verifies that trophoblastic neoplasms often having the features of nonchoriocarcinomatous gestational trophoblastic tumors may arise from the testis, occur either in the untreated primary tumor or in metastases after chemotherapy, and should be distinguished from choriocarcinoma given what appears to be a less aggressive clinical course.
The metastastic cascade is a complex process that is regulated at multiple levels in prostate cancer (PCa). Recent evidence suggests that microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in PCa metastasis and hold great promise as therapeutic targets. In this study, we found that miR-573 expression is significantly lower in metastatic tissues than matched primary PCa. Its downregulation is correlated with high Gleason score and cancer-related mortality of PCa patients (P = 0.041, Kaplan-Meier analysis). Through gain- and loss-of function experiments, we demonstrated that miR-573 inhibits PCa cell migration, invasion and TGF-β1-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in vitro and lung metastasis in vivo. Mechanistically, miR573 directly targets the fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) gene. Knockdown of FGFR1 phenocopies the effects of miR-573 expression on PCa cell invasion, whereas overexpression of FGFR1 partially attenuates the functions of miR-573. Consequently, miR-573 modulates the activation of FGFR1-downstream signaling in response to fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2). Importantly, we showed that GATA3 directly increases miR-573 expression, and thus down-regulates FGFR1 expression, EMT and invasion of PCa cells in a miR-573-dependent manner, supporting the involvement of GATA3, miR-573 and FGFR1 in controlling the EMT process during PCa metastasis. Altogether, our findings demonstrate a novel mechanism by which miR-573 modulates EMT and metastasis of PCa cells, and suggest miR-573 as a potential biomarker and/or therapeutic target for PCa management.
Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is the second most prevalent histologic subtype of invasive breast cancer. Here, we comprehensively profiled 817 breast tumors, including 127 ILC, 490 ductal (IDC), and 88 mixed IDC/ILC. Besides E-cadherin loss, the best known ILC genetic hallmark, we identified mutations targeting PTEN, TBX3, and FOXA1 as ILC enriched features. PTEN loss associated with increased AKT phosphorylation, which was highest in ILC among all breast cancer subtypes. Spatially clustered FOXA1 mutations correlated with increased FOXA1 expression and activity. Conversely, GATA3 mutations and high expression characterized luminal A IDC, suggesting differential modulation of ER activity in ILC and IDC. Proliferation and immune-related signatures determined three ILC transcriptional subtypes associated with survival differences. Mixed IDC/ILC cases were molecularly classified as ILC-like and IDC-like revealing no true hybrid features. This multidimensional molecular atlas sheds new light on the genetic bases of ILC and provides potential clinical options.
GATA transcription factors are zinc finger DNA binding proteins that regulate transcription during development and cell differentiation. The three important GATA transcription factors GATA1, GATA2 and GATA3 play essential roles in the development and maintenance of hematopoietic systems. GATA1 is required for the erythroid and megakaryocytic commitment during hematopoiesis. GATA2 is crucial for the proliferation and survival of early hematopoietic cells, and is also involved in lineage specific transcriptional regulation as the dynamic partner of GATA1. GATA3 plays an essential role in T lymphoid cell development and immune regulation. As a result, mutations in genes encoding the GATA transcription factors or alteration in the protein expression level or their function have been linked to a variety of human hematologic disorders. In this review, we summarized the current knowledge regarding the disrupted biologic function of GATA in various hematologic disorders.
Adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) is a peripheral T cell neoplasm of largely unknown genetic basis, associated with human T cell leukemia virus type-1 (HTLV-1) infection. Here we describe an integrated molecular study in which we performed whole-genome, exome, transcriptome and targeted resequencing, as well as array-based copy number and methylation analyses, in a total of 426 ATL cases. The identified alterations overlap significantly with the HTLV-1 Tax interactome and are highly enriched for T cell receptor-NF-κB signaling, T cell trafficking and other T cell-related pathways as well as immunosurveillance. Other notable features include a predominance of activating mutations (in PLCG1, PRKCB, CARD11, VAV1, IRF4, FYN, CCR4 and CCR7) and gene fusions (CTLA4-CD28 and ICOS-CD28). We also discovered frequent intragenic deletions involving IKZF2, CARD11 and TP73 and mutations in GATA3, HNRNPA2B1, GPR183, CSNK2A1, CSNK2B and CSNK1A1. Our findings not only provide unique insights into key molecules in T cell signaling but will also guide the development of new diagnostics and therapeutics in this intractable tumor.
Encysted cyathostomin larvae are ubiquitous in grazing horses. Arrested development occurs in this population and can lead to an accumulation of encysted larvae. Large numbers of tissue larvae place the horse at risk for developing larval cyathostominosis. This disease complex is caused by mass emergence of these larvae and is characterized by a generalized acute typhlocolitis and manifests itself as a profuse protein-losing watery diarrhea with a reported case-fatality rate of about 50%. Two anthelmintic formulations have a label claim for larvicidal therapy of these encysted stages; moxidectin and a five-day regimen of fenbendazole. There is limited knowledge about inflammatory and immunologic reactions to larvicidal therapy. This study was designed to evaluate blood acute phase reactants as well as gene expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, both locally in the large intestinal walls and systemically. Further, mucosal tissue samples were evaluated histopathologically as well as analyzed for gene expression of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines, cluster of differentiation (CD) cell surface proteins, and select transcription factors. Eighteen juvenile horses with naturally acquired cyathostomin infections were randomly assigned to three treatment groups; one group served as untreated controls (Group 1), one received a five-day regimen of fenbendazole (10mg/kg) (Group 2), and one group received moxidectin (0.4mg/kg) (Group 3). Horses were treated on day 0 and euthanatized on days 18-20. Serum and whole blood samples were collected on days 0, 5, and 18. All horses underwent necropsy with collection of tissue samples from the ventral colon and cecum. Acute phase reactants measured included serum amyloid A, iron and fibrinogen, and the cytokines evaluated included interferon γ, tumor necrosis factor α, transforming growth factor (TGF)-β, and interleukins 1β, 4, 5, 6, and 10. Transcription factors evaluated were FoxP3, GATA3 and tBet, and CD markers included CD163, CD3z, CD4, CD40, and CD8b. Histopathology revealed an inflammatory reaction with higher levels of lymphocytes, T cells, B cells, eosinophils and fibrous tissue in the moxidectin-treated group compared to controls or horses treated with fenbendazole. No apparent systemic reactions were observed. Expression of IL-5 and TGF-β in intestinal tissues was significantly lower in Group 3 compared to Group 1. This study revealed a subtle inflammatory reaction to moxidectin, which is unlikely to cause clinical issues.
The c-Myc gene codes for a basic-helix-loop-helix-leucine zipper transcription factor protein and is reported to be frequently over-expressed in human cancers. Given that c-Myc plays an essential role in neoplastic transformation we wished to define its activity in lung cancer and therefore studied its targeted expression to respiratory epithelium in a transgenic mouse disease model. Using histological well-defined tumors, transcriptome analysis identified novel c-Myc responsive cell cycle and apoptosis genes that were validated as direct c-Myc targets using EMSA, Western blotting, gene reporter and ChIP assays. Through computational analyses c-Myc cooperating transcription factors emerged for repressed and up-regulated genes in cancer samples, namely Klf7, Gata3, Sox18, p53 and Elf5 and Cebpα, respectively. Conversely, at promoters of genes regulated in transgenic but non-carcinomatous lung tissue enriched binding sites for c-Myc, Hbp1, Hif1 were observed. Bioinformatic analysis of tumor transcriptomic data revealed regulatory gene networks and highlighted mortalin and moesin as master regulators while gene reporter and ChIP assays in the H1299 lung cancer cell line as well as cross-examination of published ChIP-sequence data of 7 human and 2 mouse cell lines provided strong evidence for the identified genes to be c-Myc targets. The clinical significance of findings was established by evaluating expression of orthologous proteins in human lung cancer. Taken collectively, a molecular circuit for c-Myc-dependent cellular transformation was identified and the network analysis broadened the perspective for molecularly targeted therapies.
Uterine cervical carcinoma secondarily involving the genitourinary tract is rarely documented histologically. These tumors present a unique diagnostic challenge as they can appear morphologically similar to urothelial carcinoma as well as primary squamous cell carcinoma and primary adenocarcinoma of the bladder. Genitourinary consult cases at the Johns Hopkins Hospital from 1984 to the present were searched for cases in which the differential diagnosis was primary bladder carcinoma versus secondary involvement by cervical carcinoma. We identified 10 cases that met these criteria and evaluated them by immunohistochemistry for p16 and GATA3 and in situ hybridization for human papillomavirus (HPV). Six cases were received with a gynecologic history. Four cases had been misdiagnosed as urothelial carcinoma, and 1 case was favored to be cystitis cystica et glandularis by the submitting institutions. Morphologically, the majority of cases showed basaloid nests of tumor cells infiltrating muscle bundles, with several having foci that mimicked urothelial carcinoma in situ. Six tumors were found to be diffusely positive with p16, 1 tumor was patchy, 1 was weak, and 2 were negative. GATA3 staining was negative in 6 cases, and 4 showed weak to strong positivity. Eight cases were positive for high-risk HPV (6 were positive for HPV 16, and 1 was positive for HPV 18). In the 2 cases that were negative for HPV by in situ hybridization, characteristic morphologic features of HPV-unrelated type of endocervical adenocarcinoma were present. On the basis of our findings we advocate a multifaceted approach, combining morphologic evaluation with ancillary studies including immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization in the evaluation of genitourinary specimens for secondary involvement by cervical carcinoma. Furthermore, gynecologic clinical history is absolutely critical and most important to the evaluation and diagnosis of these specimens, as these ancillary studies are not completely sensitive or specific.
The transcription factor FOXP3 is essential for the differentiation and function of regulatory T cells (Treg). It is established that the transcription factor GATA-3 is induced in Treg cells under inflammatory conditions. GATA-3 stabilizes FOXP3 levels to avoid the differentiation of Treg cells into inflammatory-like T cells. The IL-6 signal pathway influences the sensitivity of Treg cells towards instability. The mechanism of GATA-3 in regulating FOXP3 and its relation to the IL-6 pathway remains unclear. Here we report how miR-125a-5p plays an important role in regulating the conversion of Treg cells by IL-6. miR-125a-5p expression is low in Treg cells under steady state conditions and can be induced by GATA-3 to inhibit the expression of IL-6R and STAT3. This finding reveals a GATA3/miR-125a-5p/IL-6R and STAT3/FOXP3 regulatory pathway, which determines how Treg cells respond to inflammatory IL-6-rich conditions.
Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) undergo extensive nuclear reprogramming and are generally indistinguishable from embryonic stem cells (ESCs) in their functional capacity and transcriptome and DNA methylation profiles. However, direct conversion of cells from one lineage to another often yields incompletely reprogrammed, functionally compromised cells, raising the question of whether pluripotency is required to achieve a high degree of nuclear reprogramming. Here, we show that transient expression of Gata3, Eomes, and Tfap2c in mouse fibroblasts induces stable, transgene-independent trophoblast stem-like cells (iTSCs). iTSCs possess transcriptional profiles highly similar to blastocyst-derived TSCs, with comparable methylation and H3K27ac patterns and genome-wide H2A.X deposition. iTSCs generate trophoectodermal lineages upon differentiation, form hemorrhagic lesions, and contribute to developing placentas in chimera assays, indicating a high degree of nuclear reprogramming, with no evidence of passage through a transient pluripotent state. Together, these data demonstrate that extensive nuclear reprogramming can be achieved independently of pluripotency.
Trophoblast stem cells (TSCs) arise from the first cell fate decision in the developing embryo and generate extra-embryonic lineages, giving rise to the fetal portion of the placenta. Mouse embryonic and extra-embryonic lineages are strictly separated by a distinct epigenetic barrier, which is not fully overcome following expression of TSC-determining factors in embryonic stem cells. Here, we show that transient expression of Tfap2c, Gata3, Eomes, and Ets2 is sufficient to reprogram mouse embryonic fibroblasts and post-natal tail-tip-derived fibroblasts into induced TSCs (iTSCs) and surmount the epigenetic barrier separating somatic from extra-embryonic lineages. iTSCs share nearly identical morphological characteristics, gene expression profiles, and DNA methylation patterns with blastocyst-derived TSCs. Furthermore, iTSCs display transgene-independent self-renewal, differentiate along extra-embryonic lineages, and chimerize host placentas following blastocyst injection. These findings provide insights into the transcription factor networks governing TSC identity and opportunities for studying the epigenetic barriers underlying embryonic and extra-embryonic lineage segregation.
Genome-wide association studies and other genetic analyses have identified a large number of genes and variants implicating a variety of disease etiological mechanisms. It is imperative for the study of human diseases to put these genetic findings into a coherent functional context. Here we use system biology tools to examine disease connections of five master genes for CD4+ T cell subtypes (TBX21, GATA3, RORC, BCL6, and FOXP3). We compiled a list of genes functionally interacting (protein-protein interaction, or by acting in the same pathway) with the master genes, then we surveyed the disease connections, either by experimental evidence or by genetic association. Embryonic lethal genes (also known as essential genes) are over-represented in master genes and their interacting genes (55% versus 40% in other genes). Transcription factors are significantly enriched among genes interacting with the master genes (63% versus 10% in other genes). Predicted haploinsufficiency is a feature of most these genes. Disease-connected genes are enriched in this list of genes: 42% of these genes have a disease connection according to Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) (versus 23% in other genes), and 74% are associated with some diseases or phenotype in a Genome Wide Association Study (GWAS) (versus 43% in other genes). Seemingly, not all of the diseases connected to genes surveyed were immune related, which may indicate pleiotropic functions of the master regulator genes and associated genes.
Graves' disease(GD) is a common autoimmune disorder that is primarily driven by malfunction of T lymphocytes, which influences the production of antibodies reacting with cellular and tissue components of the thyroid gland. The aim of this study was to determine the level of mRNA expression for the genes encoding T-bet and GATA3, as the master regulators of the T helper(Th)1 and Th2 differentiation, respectively together with Th1(IFN-γ) and Th2(IL-4) cytokine mRNA expression. Relative quantification of T-bet, GATA3, IFN-γ and IL-4 transcripts in peripheral blood mononuclear cell(PBMCs) was conducted by real-time reverse transcriptase PCR(RT-PCR). Serum levels of IFN-γ and IL-4 were also determined by Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA). In comparison with the normal group, T-bet and IFN-γ mRNA expression levels were significantly up-regulated in the GD patients, while GATA3 and IL-4 mRNA expression levels were down-regulated. In addition, a marked decrease in plasma IL-4 levels was observed in the GD group. IFN-γ levels were also higher in patients in comparison to the controls. Furthermore, a clear correlation between increased IFN-γ mRNA expression and IFN-γ (P<0.05) was revealed. These results indicate that a Th1/Th2 imbalance exists in GD, and it may be implicated in the pathogenesis of disease.
Protein abundance must be precisely regulated throughout life, and nowhere is the stringency of this requirement more evident than during T-cell development: A twofold increase in the abundance of transcription factor GATA3 results in thymic lymphoma, while reduced GATA3 leads to diminished T-cell production. GATA3 haploinsufficiency also causes human HDR (hypoparathyroidism, deafness, and renal dysplasia) syndrome, often accompanied by immunodeficiency. Here we show that loss of one Gata3 allele leads to diminished expansion (and compromised development) of immature T cells as well as aberrant induction of myeloid transcription factor PU.1. This effect is at least in part mediated transcriptionally: We discovered that Gata3 is monoallelically expressed in a parent of origin-independent manner in hematopoietic stem cells and early T-cell progenitors. Curiously, half of the developing cells switch to biallelic Gata3 transcription abruptly at midthymopoiesis. We show that the monoallelic-to-biallelic transcriptional switch is stably maintained and therefore is not a stochastic phenomenon. This unique mechanism, if adopted by other regulatory genes, may provide new biological insights into the rather prevalent phenomenon of monoallelic expression of autosomal genes as well as into the variably penetrant pathophysiological spectrum of phenotypes observed in many human syndromes that are due to haploinsufficiency of the affected gene.
To identify differentially expressed T cells-related genes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and compare their differences in T cell activation and subset functions in different stages of coronary atherosclerosis disease (CAD).
20 patients with acute myocardial infarction patients (AMI), 20 patients with stable angina pectoris (SA) and 20 healthy volunteers were recruited into the study. Whole human genome microarray analysis was used to detect the expression of T cell related genes among three groups.
mRNA expression of 68 genes involved in T cell was detected. 1) Antigen recognition: in the AMI patients 12 genes were down-regulated and 9 were significantly down-regulated among all 13 genes, compared with those of the SA and the control group, respectively. 2) Co-stimulators and regulators of T cell activation: among 16 genes in the AMI patients, 15 genes were lower and 8 were significantly lower than the other two groups. 3) T cell subsets, CTL: all 11 genes in the AMI patients were down-regulated, particularly GZMM and CASP8 were significantly down-regulated compared with the SA patients and controls. Th1/Th2: in the AMI patients, gene expressions including IL1 and IL18 were significantly higher, whereas GATA3 mRNA was significantly lower than those in other two groups. Th17/Treg: in the AMI group, RORC and CCR6 mRNAs were significantly down-regulated compared with the control group, while CD25 and CD127 expressions were significantly lower than SA group. There was no difference in T cell related genes between the SA patients and the controls.
In the AMI patients, the mRNA expression of T cell antigen recognition, activation and subset functions was imbalanced or decreased, indicating the dysfunction of cellular immunity in patients with AMI. Then improving T cell mediated cellular immunity may be considered as a potential target for medical interventions in the patients with AMI.
The transcription factor PU.1 is predominantly expressed in dendritic cells (DCs) and is essential for DC differentiation. Although there are several reports that PU.1 positively regulates the expression of DC-specific genes, whether PU.1 also has a suppressive effect on DCs is largely unknown. Here we demonstrate that PU.1 suppresses the expression of Th2 cytokines including IL-13 and IL-5 in bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs), through repression of the expression of GATA3, which is a master regulator of Th2 differentiations. When PU.1 siRNA was introduced into BMDCs, LPS-induced expression of IL-13 and IL-5 was increased along with upregulation of the constitutive expression of GATA2 and GATA3. The additional introduction of GATA3 siRNA but not of GATA2 siRNA abrogated PU.1 siRNA-mediated upregulation of IL-13 and IL-5. A chromatin immunoprecipitation assay showed that PU.1 bound to Gata3 proximal promoter region, which is more dominant than the distal promoter in driving GATA3 transcription in DCs. The degree of histone acetylation at the Gata3 promoter was decreased in PU.1 siRNA-introduced DCs, suggesting the involvement of PU.1 in chromatin modification of the Gata3 promoter. Treatment with a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, trichostatin A, increased the degree of histone H3 acetylation at the Gata3 promoter and induced the subsequent expression of GATA3. Experiments using HDAC inhibitors and siRNAs showed that HDAC3 suppressed GATA3 expression. The recruitment of HDAC3 to the Gata3 promoter was decreased by PU.1 knockdown. LPS-induced IL-13 expression was dramatically reduced in BMDCs generated from mice lacking the conserved GATA3 response element, termed CGRE, which is an essential site for the binding of GATA3 on the Il-13 promoter. The degree of H3K4me3 at CGRE was significantly increased in PU.1 siRNA-transfected stimulated DCs. Our results indicate that PU.1 plays pivotal roles in DC development and function, serving not only as a transcriptional activator but also as a repressor.
The shoot apical meristem (SAM) is essential for continuous organogenesis in higher plants, while the leaf is the primary source organ and the leaf shape directly affects the efficiency of photosynthesis. HANABA TARANU (HAN) encodes a GATA3-type transcription factor that functions in floral organ development, SAM organization, and embryo development in Arabidopsis, but is involved in suppressing bract outgrowth and promoting branching in grass species. Here the function of the HAN homologue CsHAN1 was characterized in cucumber, an important vegetable with great agricultural and economic value. CsHAN1 is predominantly expressed at the junction of the SAM and the stem, and can partially rescue the han-2 floral organ phenotype in Arabidopsis. Overexpression and RNAi of CsHAN1 transgenic cucumber resulted in retarded growth early after embryogenesis and produced highly lobed leaves. Further, it was found that CsHAN1 may regulate SAM development through regulating the WUSCHEL (WUS) and SHOOT MERISTEMLESS (STM) pathways, and mediate leaf development through a complicated gene regulatory network in cucumber.
Ribosomal recruitment of cellular mRNAs depends on binding of eIF4F to the mRNA's 5'-terminal 'cap'. The minimal 'cap0' consists of N7-methylguanosine linked to the first nucleotide via a 5'-5' triphosphate (ppp) bridge. Cap0 is further modified by 2'-O-methylation of the next two riboses, yielding 'cap1' (m7GpppNmN) and 'cap2' (m7GpppNmNm). However, some viral RNAs lack 2'-O-methylation, whereas others contain only ppp- at their 5'-end. Interferon-induced proteins with tetratricopeptide repeats (IFITs) are highly expressed effectors of innate immunity that inhibit viral replication by incompletely understood mechanisms. Here, we investigated the ability of IFIT family members to interact with cap1-, cap0- and 5'ppp- mRNAs and inhibit their translation. IFIT1 and IFIT1B showed very high affinity to cap-proximal regions of cap0-mRNAs (K1/2,app ∼9 to 23 nM). The 2'-O-methylation abrogated IFIT1/mRNA interaction, whereas IFIT1B retained the ability to bind cap1-mRNA, albeit with reduced affinity (K1/2,app ∼450 nM). The 5'-terminal regions of 5'ppp-mRNAs were recognized by IFIT5 (K1/2,app ∼400 nM). The activity of individual IFITs in inhibiting initiation on a specific mRNA was determined by their ability to interact with its 5'-terminal region: IFIT1 and IFIT1B efficiently outcompeted eIF4F and abrogated initiation on cap0-mRNAs, whereas inhibition on cap1- and 5'ppp- mRNAs by IFIT1B and IFIT5 was weaker and required higher protein concentrations.
Phenoloxidases (POs) play key roles in various physiological functions in insects, e.g., cuticular sclerotization, wound healing, egg tanning, cuticle formation and melanotic encapsulaction of pathogens. Previously, we identified five POs, designated As-pro-PO I-V, from the mosquito Armigeres subalbatus and demonstrated that the functions of As-pro-PO I, II and III, were associated with filarial parasite melanization, blood feeding and cuticle formation, respectively. In the present study, we delineate the dual functions of As-pro-PO V. We found that the level of As-pro-PO V mRNA in mosquitoes was significantly increased after microfilaria challenge or blood feeding, and decreased to normal level after oviposition. Knockdown of As-pro-PO V by dsRNA resulted in significant decreases in the degree of microfilaria melanization, egg chronic melanization rates and egg hatching rates in Ar. subalbatus. Further transfection and electrophoretic mobility-shift assays verified the As-pro-PO V gene might regulated by both AP-1, a putative immune-related regulatory element and CdxA, a developmental regulatory element. The binding of AP-1 and CdxA motif with mosquito nuclear extracts was significantly enhanced after microfilaria challenge and blood-feeding in Ar. subalbatus, respectively. These results indicate that As-pro-PO V is a critical enzyme that is required for both an effective melanization immune response and egg chorion melanization in this mosquito.
Our recent genome-wide association study (GWAS) had discovered a new locus at 8p23 (rs2738048) associated with IgA nephropathy (IgAN) in Chinese Han patients, implicating the DEFA gene family within this locus as susceptibility genes. However, it is still unknown whether there are additional variations within these genes associated with the disease susceptibility. The aim of this study is to investigate the polymorphisms of DEFA genes in the susceptibility to IgAN and explore possible disease mechanisms. Sixteen tag single-nucleotide polymorphisms (tag SNPs) were selected for association study in 1,000 IgAN cases and 1,000 controls by using Sequenom MassArray system or TaqMan SNP genotyping assays. We found seven SNPs within DEFA genes that were significantly associated with IgAN, including rs2738048 discovered in our previous GWAS (p = 0.0007, OR = 0.77) and additional 6 SNPs (rs2615787, p = 0.0001, OR = 0.74; rs2738081, p = 0.0003, OR = 0.72; rs2738058, p = 0.0001, OR = 0.73; rs4288398, p = 0.0008, OR = 0.78; rs6984215, p = 0.002, OR = 0.63; rs12716641, p = 0.00002, OR = 0.71). Electrophoretic mobility shift assays and luciferase assays demonstrated that fragments containing rs2738048, rs2738081 and rs6984215 were transcription factor binding sites for CTF, SP1 and CdxA, respectively, and the allele status of rs2738048 and rs6984215 could significantly change the luciferase activity. These results suggest that polymorphisms within DEFA genes are involved in gene transcriptional regulation, and this may have some effect in mediating susceptibility to IgAN in southern Chinese.
This study examined the associations between vitamin D status, bone mineral content (BMC), areal bone mineral density (aBMD), and markers of calcium homeostasis in preschool-aged children. Children (n=488; age range: 1.8-6.0 y) were randomly recruited from Montreal. The distal forearm was scanned using a peripheral dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry scanner (Lunar PIXI; GE Healthcare, Fairfield, CT). A subset (n=81) had clinical dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (cDXA) scans (Hologic 4500A Discovery Series) of lumbar spine (LS) 1-4, whole body, and ultradistal forearm. All were assessed for plasma 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] and parathyroid hormone concentrations (Liaison; Diasorin), ionized calcium (ABL80 FLEX; Radiometer Medical A/S), and dietary vitamin D and calcium intakes by survey. Age (p<0.001) and weight-for-age Z-score (p<0.001) were positively associated with BMC and aBMD in all regression models, whereas male sex contributed positively to forearm BMC and aBMD. Having a 25(OH)D concentration of >75 nmol/L positively associated with forearm and whole body BMC and aBMD (p<0.036). Sun index related to (p<0.029) cDXA forearm and LS 1-4 BMC and whole-body aBMD. Nutrient intakes did not relate to BMC or aBMD. In conclusion, higher vitamin D status is linked to higher BMC and aBMD of forearm and whole body in preschool-aged children.
Helicobacter pylori encoded CagA is presently the only known virulence factor that is injected into gastric epithelial cells where it destroys apical junctional complexes and induces dedifferentiation of gastric epithelial cells, leading to H. pylori-related gastric carcinogensis. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms by which CagA mediates these changes. Caudal-related homeobox 2 (Cdx2) is an intestine-specific transcription factor highly expressed in multistage tissues of dysplasia and cancer. One specific target of Cdx2, Claudin-2, is involved in the regulation of tight junction (TJ) permeability. In this study, our findings showed that the activity of Cdx2 binding to Cdx binding sites of CdxA (GTTTATG) and CdxB (TTTTAGG) of probes corresponding to claudin-2 flanking region increased in AGS cells, infected with CagA positive wild-type strain of H. pylori, compared to CagA negative isogenic mutant-type strain. Moreover, Cdx2 upregulated claudin-2 expression at transcriptional level and translational level. In the meantime, we found that TJs of AGS cells, infected with CagA positive wild-type strain of H. pylori, compared to CagA negative isogenic mutant-type strain, were more severely destroyed, leading to wider cell gap, interference of contact, scattering and highly elevated migration of cells. Herein, this study is firstly demonstrated that H. pylori-encoded CagA disrupts TJs and induces invasiveness of AGS gastric carcinoma cells via Cdx2-dependent targeting of Claudin-2. This provides a new mechanism whereby CagA induced dedifferentiation of AGS cells, leading to malignant behavior of biology.
There are few large-scale studies on the utility of peripheral dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (pDXA) in children. As central dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (cDXA) equipment is not commonly available in the developing world, we assessed the correlation of bone mineral density (BMD) with cDXA and pDXA in children to determine the optimal Z-score thresholds of pDXA for predicting two predefined Z-score cutoffs (≤-1, ≤-2) of cDXA in 844 subjects (441 boys, 403 girls) aged 10-18 years. The BMD of antero-posterior lumbar spine (L1-L4), proximal femur and forearm was measured by cDXA, while the peripheral BMD of forearm and calcaneus was estimated using pDXA. The correlation was statistically significant at all sites (p<0.01). The coefficients ranged from 0.56 to 0.79 in boys and 0.17 to 0.32 in girls. A significant positive correlation was observed between BMD by pDXA and cDXA in Indian children, with a strong gender difference in both the extent of correlation and the ability of peripheral BMD to predict central BMD.
The high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) protein is a multifunctional cytokine-like molecule that plays an important role in the pathogenesis of tumors. In this study, real-time polymerase chain reactions and Western blot assays indicated that HMGB1 transcriptional activity and protein level are increased in Tax+-T cells (TaxP). To clarify the mechanisms, a series of HMGB1 deletion reporter plasmids (pHLuc1 to pHLuc6) were transfected into Tax--T cells (TaxN, Jurkat) and Tax+-T cells (TaxP). We found that promoter activity in Tax+-T cells to be higher than that in Tax--T cells, indicating a significant increase in pHLuc6. Bay11-7082 (NF-κB inhibitor) treatment did not block the enhancing effect. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that Tax was retained on a HMGB1 promoter fragment encompassing -1163 to -975. Bioinformatics analysis showed six characteristic cis-elements for CdxA, AP-1, AML-1a, USF, v-Myb, and C/EBP in the fragment in question. Mutation of cis- elements for C/EBP reduced significant HMGB1 promoter activity induced by Tax. These findings indicate that Tax enhances the expression of HMGB1 gene at the transcriptional level, possibly by interacting with C/EBP.
Interferon regulatory factor 2 (IRF-2) is a multi-functional transcription factor in the IRF family exhibiting both transcriptional activating and repressing activities. In this study, an IRF-2 gene (HcIRF-2) from Hyriopsis cumingii was identified and characterized. The cDNA sequence consisted of 2688 bp, encoding a 329 amino acid-protein. The amino acid sequence had a highly conserved N-terminal DBD structure, containing characteristic repeats of six tryptophan residues. The 5'-flanking region contained several transcription regulation elements such as AP1, CdxA, HSF, NIT2 and HNF-3b. Nine SNPs were obtained through direct sequencing of HcIRF-2 from resistant and susceptible stock. Only +2365T/C SNP was significantly associated with resistance/susceptibility of H. cumingii to Aeromonas hydrophila both in genotype (P = 0.021) and allele (P = 0.006) analysis. The SNPs +2248T/C and +2365T/C were in high linkage disequilibrium, and haplotype analysis revealed that haplotype TT frequency in the resistant group was significantly higher than in the susceptible group. The mortality in +2248CC genotype individuals was significantly higher than in CT and TT genotype individuals. These results indicated that haplotype TT and genotype +2248CT and +2248GT individuals were resistant to A. hydrophila, which could make them potential markers in selective breeding of H. cumingii.
Based on the cDNA sequence of GPX in Hyriopsis cumingii, the complete genomic DNA of GPX gene and it's 5'-flanking region were identified from H. cumingii using PCR and genome walking technique. The length of the complete genomic sequence was 6 708 bp including the 5'-flanking region, two exons, and one intron. Sequence analysis of the 992 bp 5'-flanking region revealed that it contained a core promoter element (TATA-box) and other transcription regulation elements such as AP1, C/EBP, and CdxA. The sequence lengths of the two exons were 273 bp and 991 bp, respectively, and the intron was 4 491 bp in length. Sixteen single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were detected in the GPX gene from resistant stock (RS) and susceptible stock (SS) of H. cumingii. These polymorphisms were analyzed with regard to resistance to Aeromonas hydrophila. Among them, three SNPs including A-99G, A-86C, and A-49C in GPX promoter and five SNPs including A2841T, C2847T, G3146C, A3150G, and G4645T in GPX introns were associated with resistance/susceptibility of H. cumingii to A. hydrophila, both in genotype and allele frequency. Linkage disequilibrium analysis revealed that A-86C, A-49C, C2847T, A3150G, G4645T, A2841T, and G3146C were in high linkage disequilibrium, and haplotype analysis revealed that the frequency of two major predominant haplotypes (ACTGT and TG) in the resistant group was significantly higher than that in the susceptible group. The results suggest that the polymorphic loci in the GPX gene could be potential genetic markers for future molecular selection of strains resistant to diseases.
Investigating intestinal physiology in vitro remains challenging due to the lack of an effective primary enterocyte culture system. Recently developed protocols for growing organoids containing crypts and villus from adult mouse intestinal epithelium in Matrigel present an attractive alternative to the classical techniques. However, these approaches require the use of sophisticated and expensive serum-free medium supplemented with epithelial growth factor (EGF), Wnt agonist (R-spondin 1), and bone morphogenetic protein inhibitor (Noggin) in high concentrations. Here we demonstrate that is possible to use an isolated chicken embryonic intestinal epithelium to create such an organoid culture. Structures formed in Matrigel matrix in the first two days following isolation survive and enlarge during ensuing weeks. They have the appearance of empty spheres and comprise cells expressing cytokeratin (an epithelial cell marker), villin (a marker of enterocytes), and Sox-9 (a transcription factor characteristic of progenitors and stem cells of intestinal crypts). With chicken embryonic tissue as a source of organoids, prostaglandin E2 is as effective as R-spondin 1 and Noggin in promoting sustained growth and survival of epithelial spheroids.
The production of therapeutic proteins from transgenic animals is one of the most important successes of animal biotechnology. Milk is presently the most mature system for production of therapeutic proteins from a transgenic animal. Specifically, β-casein is a major component of cow, goat and sheep milk, and its promoter has been used to regulate the expression of transgenic genes in the mammary gland of transgenic animals. Here, we cloned the porcine β-casein gene and analyzed the transcriptional activity of the promoter and intron 1 region of the porcine β-casein gene. Sequence inspection of the 5'-flanking region revealed potential DNA elements including SRY, CdxA, AML-a, GATA-3, GATA-1 and C/EBP β. In addition, the first intron of the porcine β-casein gene contained the transcriptional enhancers Oct-1, SRY, YY1, C/EBP β, and AP-1, as well as the retroviral TATA box. We estimated the transcriptional activity for the 5'-proximal region with or without intron 1 of the porcine β-casein gene in HC11 cells stimulated with lactogenic hormones. High transcriptional activity was obtained for the 5'-proximal region with intron 1 of the porcine β-casein gene. The β-casein gene containing the mutant TATA box (CATAAAA) was also cloned from another individual pig. Promoter activity of the luciferase vector containing the mutant TATA box was weaker than the same vector containing the normal TATA box. Taken together, these findings suggest that the transcription of porcine β-casein gene is regulated by lactogenic hormone via intron 1 and promoter containing a mutant TATA box (CATAAAA) has poor porcine β-casein gene activity.
To examine whether PARK16, which was recently identified as a protective locus for Parkinson disease (PD) in Asian, white, and South American populations, is also associated with PD in the genetically homogeneous Ashkenazi Jewish population.
Case-control study.
A medical center affiliated with a university. Subjects  Five single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located between RAB7L1 and SLC41A1 were analyzed in 720 patients with PD and 642 controls, all of Ashkenazi Jewish origin.
Haplotypes were defined and risk estimates were determined for each SNP and haplotype. Bioinformatic analysis defined the putative promoter region of RAB7L1 and the transcription factor binding sites that are potentially affected by 2 of the tested SNPs.
All tested SNPs were significantly associated with PD (odds ratios = 0.64-0.76; P = .0002-.014). Two of them, rs1572931 and rs823144, were localized to the putative promoter region of RAB7L1 and their sequence variations altered the predicted transcription factor binding sites of CdxA, p300, GATA-1, Sp1, and c-Ets-1. Only 0.4% of patients were homozygous for the protective rs1572931 genotype (T/T), compared with 3.0% among controls (P = 5 × 10(-5)). This SNP was included in a haplotype that reduced the risk for PD by 10- to 12-fold (P = .002-.01) in all patients with PD and in a subgroup of patients who do not carry the Ashkenazi founder mutations in the GBA or LRRK2 genes.
Our data demonstrate that specific SNP variations and haplotypes in the PARK16 locus are associated with reduced risk for PD in Ashkenazim. Although it is possible that alterations in the putative promoter of RAB7L1 are associated with this effect, the role of other genes in this locus cannot be ruled out.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 6 (CDK6) is a key element of D-type cyclin holoenzymes. It is involved in the regulation of the G1-phase of the cell cycle and is considered to be an important candidate gene for selection of body measurement traits through marker-assisted selection. We cloned the promoter sequence of this gene in bovines and found it to share high similarity with that of the human CDK6 promoter. A 2271-bp sequence upstream of the start codon in the bovine CDK6 5'-flanking sequence is rich in GC; it lacks consensus TATA or CAAT box, but it contains several MZF1 binding sites. Other potential cis-regulatory elements were found in the 5'-flanking region, including CdxA, SRY, p300, GATA-1, and deltaE. Allele frequencies were also analyzed in various cattle breeds (Qinchuan, Qinchuan improvement steers, Nanyang, Jiaxian red, Xia'nan, Luxi, Simmental and Luxi crossbred steers, and Xuelong) and association with a selected single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) was calculated. The T-1075C SNP in the promoter was found to be significantly associated with body length and heart girth. This SNP marker was found to be significantly associated with body length and the heart girth in 737 individuals. We conclude that this SNP of the CDK6 gene has potential as a genetic marker for important body traits in bovine reproduction and breeding.
Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) is the standard method to assess bone mineral density (BMD). The International Society for Clinical Densitometry recommends the measurement of BMD at lumbar spine, total hip and femoral neck, but in certain circumstances the 33% radius may be the recommended area to measure BMD. The aim of this study has been to analyze whether 33% radius should be considered the recommended area to assess BMD in prostate cancer patients.
This is a retrospective study where BMD was assessed by DXA at 33% radius, lumbar spine, total hip, and femoral neck (cDXA) in 141 prostate cancer patients. Twenty-eight patients were hormone naïve while 113 were subjected to androgen suppression (AS) during the mean period of 29 months. Osteoporosis was diagnosed when T-score was lower than -2.5 and osteopenia when it ranged between -1 and -2.5.
The osteoporosis rate was 29.8% at 33% radius, 23.4% at femoral neck, 19.9% at lumbar spine, and 12.8% at total hip. The overall osteoporosis rate at cDXA was 29.1%. Osteoporosis was detected in 52.2% at 33% radius and 36.2% at cDXA. Normal BMD was found in 17.7% at 33% radius and 34.8% at cDXA. The 33% radius was the only site where a significant increase in the osteoporosis rate was detected in patients subjected to AS compared to those hormone naïve (33 and 13.8%).
The 33% radius seems more sensible than the central skeleton areas to detect bone mass loss in patients with prostate cancer.
Alkaline phosphatases are ubiquitous enzymes involved in many important biological processes. Mammalian tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase has long been thought to feature in embryonic development and bone formation. In this study, an alkaline phosphatase (ALP) gene from Paralichthys olivaceus was identified by rapid amplification of cDNA ends and genome-walking PCR. The ALP gene extends 10,141 bp and contains 11 exons and 10 introns. The open reading frame of the ALP transcript consists of 1,431 bp, which encodes 476 amino acids products named as POALP. An analysis of its secondary and tertiary structure revealed that the POALP was conserved in different species, but one disulfide linkage made it possible to adapt to low-temperature environment. The ALP activity was found to be first detectable in the embryo before hatching. The POALP was distributed ubiquitously in the body of P. olivaceus and was particularly high in the digestive tract. These findings suggest the potential role of POALP in nutrient absorption and transportation. During the pre-metamorphosis (F stage), ALP gene expression is 2.5-folds of that in the pro-metamorphosis (E stage); but in the post-metamorphosis (I stage), it was 1.8-folds of that of pro-metamorphosis. Exogenetic thyroxine (T4) and thiourea (TU) influenced the ALP gene expression significantly during the metamorphosis. Bioinformatics analysis showed that Japanese flounder ALP promoter region contained promoter sequence and putative recognition site for several transcriptional factors, including SREBP-1, SYR, and CdxA. In vitro promoter assays employing EGFP reporter system demonstrated that the promoter of ALP was active.
Prevotella bryantii B(1)4 is a member of the phylum Bacteroidetes and contributes to the degradation of hemicellulose in the rumen. The genome of P. bryantii harbors four genes predicted to encode glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 3 (GH3) enzymes. To evaluate whether these genes encode enzymes with redundant biological functions, each gene was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. Biochemical analysis of the recombinant proteins revealed that the enzymes exhibit different substrate specificities. One gene encoded a cellodextrinase (CdxA), and three genes encoded beta-xylosidase enzymes (Xyl3A, Xyl3B, and Xyl3C) with different specificities for either para-nitrophenyl (pNP)-linked substrates or substituted xylooligosaccharides. To identify the amino acid residues that contribute to catalysis and substrate specificity within this family of enzymes, the roles of conserved residues (R177, K214, H215, M251, and D286) in Xyl3B were probed by site-directed mutagenesis. Each mutation led to a severely decreased catalytic efficiency without a change in the overall structure of the mutant enzymes. Through amino acid sequence alignments, an amino acid residue (E115) that, when mutated to aspartic acid, resulted in a 14-fold decrease in the k(cat)/K(m) for pNP-beta-d-xylopyranoside (pNPX) with a concurrent 1.1-fold increase in the k(cat)/K(m) for pNP-beta-d-glucopyranoside (pNPG) was identified. Amino acid residue E115 may therefore contribute to the discrimination between beta-xylosides and beta-glucosides. Our results demonstrate that each of the four GH3 enzymes has evolved to perform a specific role in lignopolysaccharide hydrolysis and provide insight into the role of active-site residues in catalysis and substrate specificity for GH3 enzymes.
More than ten bradykinin-related peptides and their cDNAs have been identified from amphibians, but their genes are unknown. In present study, four cDNAs encoding one, two, four and six copies of bradykinin-related peptides were cloned from the frog (Odorrana grahami) skin cDNA library, respectively. Three bradykinin-related peptides (bradykinin, Thr6-bradykinin, Leu5Thr6-bradykinin) were deduced from these four cDNA sequences. Based on the cDNA sequence, the gene sequence encoding an amphibian bradykinin-related peptide from O. grahami was determined. It is composed of 7481 base pairs including two exons and two introns. The first exon codes signal peptide and the second exon codes acidic spacer peptide and Thr6-bradykinin. The promoter region of the bradykinin gene contains several putative recognition sites for nuclear factors, such as SRY, GATA-1, LYF-1, DeltaE, CDXA, NKX-2.5, MIF1 and S8. The current work may facilitate to understand the regulation and possible functions of amphibian skin bradykinin-related peptides.
Interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF-3), an essential transcriptional regulator of the interferon genes, has been implicated in virus and double-stranded RNA mediated induction of IFN-α, IFN-β and RANTES, in virus-induced apoptosis and in tumor suppression. Promoter plays an important role in the regulation of gene expression, but the characterization of the human IRF-3 promoter has not been systematically analyzed in HEK 293 cells. To characterize the human IRF-3 promoter, we have isolated a genomic clone of the human IRF-3 gene promoter region containing 1,000 nucleotides of the 5'- flanking region. Transient transfection of 5'-deleted promoter-reporter constructs and luciferase assay illustrated the region -149/-93 relative to the transcription start site (TSS) is sufficient for full promoter activity. This region contains HSF, E2F, CdxA and c-Myb transcription factor binding sites. The E2F sites are highly conserved among IRF-3 promoter regions of mouse, rat and human. Therefore, it was suggested that this E2F site may be essential for basal promoter activity. Surprisingly, mutation of this E2F site increased the promoter activity by 2-fold. Furthermore, overexpression of E2F1 reduced the transcription activity by 80%. These results indicated that human IRF-3 gene core promoter was located within the region -149/-93 relative to the TSS. E2F1 transcription factor negatively regulates human IRF-3 gene promoter.
Endoderm organ primordia become specified between gastrulation and gut tube folding in Amniotes. Although the requirement for RA signaling for the development of a few individual endoderm organs has been established a systematic assessment of its activity along the entire antero-posterior axis has not been performed in this germ layer.
RA is synthesized from gastrulation to somitogenesis in the mesoderm that is close to the developing gut tube. In the branchial arch region specific levels of RA signaling control organ boundaries. The most anterior endoderm forming the thyroid gland is specified in the absence of RA signaling. Increasing RA in anterior branchial arches results in thyroid primordium repression and the induction of more posterior markers such as branchial arch Hox genes. Conversely reducing RA signaling shifts Hox genes posteriorly in endoderm. These results imply that RA acts as a caudalizing factor in a graded manner in pharyngeal endoderm. Posterior foregut and midgut organ primordia also require RA, but exposing endoderm to additional RA is not sufficient to expand these primordia anteriorly. We show that in chick, in contrast to non-Amniotes, RA signaling is not only necessary during gastrulation, but also throughout gut tube folding during somitogenesis. Our results show that the induction of CdxA, a midgut marker, and pancreas induction require direct RA signaling in endoderm. Moreover, communication between CdxA(+) cells is necessary to maintain CdxA expression, therefore synchronizing the cells of the midgut primordium. We further show that the RA pathway acts synergistically with FGF4 in endoderm patterning rather than mediating FGF4 activity.
Our work establishes that retinoic acid (RA) signaling coordinates the position of different endoderm organs along the antero-posterior axis in chick embryos and could serve as a basis for the differentiation of specific endodermal organs from ES cells.
Gene regulation during development is an important biological activity that leads to synthesis of biomolecules at specific locations and specific times. The single tropomyosin gene of Caenorhabditis elegans, tmy-1/lev-11, produces four isoforms of protein: two from the external promoter and two from the internal promoter. We investigated the internal promoter of tropomyosin to identify sequences that regulate expression of tmy-1 in the pharynx and intestine. By promoter deletion of tmy-1 reporters as well as by database analyses, a 100-bp fragment that contained binding sequences for a GATA factor, for a chicken CdxA homolog, and for a forkhead factor was identified. Both the forkhead and CdxA binding sequences contributed to pharyngeal and intestinal expression. In addition, the GATA site also influenced intestinal expression of tmy-1 reporter. We showed that ELT-2 and PHA-4 proteins interact directly with the GATA and forkhead binding sequences, respectively, in gel mobility shift assays. RNA interference knockdown of elt-2 diminished tmy-1::gfp expression in the intestine. In contrast to RNA interference knockdown of pha-4, expression of tmy-1::gfp in pha-4;smg-1 mutants was slightly weaker than that of the wild type. Ectopic expression of PHA-4 and ELT-2 by heat shock was sufficient to elicit widespread expression of tmy-1::lacZ reporter in embryos. We found no indication of a synergistic relation between ELT-2 and PHA-4. Based on our data, PHA-4 and CdxA function as general transcription factors for pharyngeal and intestinal regulation of tmy-1. We present models by which ELT-2, PHA-4, and CdxA orchestrate expression from the internal promoter of tmy-1.
Senescence marker protein-30 (SMP30), whose expression declines during aging in rat liver, has been proposed as an important aging marker. Besides apoptosis, SMP30 also protects cells against various other injuries by enhancement of membrane calcium-pump activity. The mechanism of this differential gene expression mechanism is not known. DNA-protein interactions, mutation analysis and luciferase reporter assay studies have been performed to elucidate the mechanism of transcriptional regulation of SMP30 gene.
We have characterized up to -2750 bp of the promoter by DNA-protein interactions studies. Twenty eight transcription factor binding sites have been identified by DNase I footprinting and electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). Transient transfection of 5' and 3' -deleted promoter-reporter constructs and luciferase assay illustrated the region between -128/+157 bp is sufficient to drive promoter activity. We have mapped an essential regulatory region between -513 to -352 bp which causes a drastic decline of reporter activity. This region contains CdxA, GATA2 and SRY transcription factor binding sites. Individual mutation of these three sites showed increase in reporter activity. Mutation in SRY site (-403/-368) showed maximum increase in reporter activity among these three sites. Therefore, we suggest that SRY like protein may be acting as a strong repressor of SMP30 gene along with CdxA and GATA-2. We also report that mutation of both Sp1 (172/-148 bp) and a C/EBPbeta (-190/-177 bp) transcription binding site located adjacent to each other on SMP30 gene promoter, causes a significant enhancement in reporter activity than individual mutation, thus may be causing the repression of SMP30 promoter activity.
These studies provide novel insights into the mechanism that regulate SMP30 gene expression.
Emerging evidence has shown that microRNAs have key roles in regulating various normal physiological processes, whereas their deregulated expression is correlated with various diseases. The miR-146 family includes miR-146a and miR-146b, with a distinct expression spectrum in different hematopoietic cells. Recent work indicated that miR-146a has a close relationship with inflammation and autoimmune diseases. miR-146-deficient mice have developed some abnormal hematopoietic phenotypes, suggesting the potential functions of miR-146 in hematopoietic development. In this study, we found that miR-146b was consistently up-regulated in both K562 and CD34(+) hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) undergoing either erythroid or megakaryocytic differentiation. Remarkably, erythroid and megakaryocytic maturation of K562 cells was induced by excess miR-146b but inhibited by decreased miR-146b levels. More importantly, an mRNA encoding receptor tyrosine kinase, namely platelet-derived growth factor receptor α (PDGFRA), was identified and validated as a direct target of miR-146b in hematopoietic cells. Gain-of-function and loss-of-function assays showed that PDGFRA functioned as a negative regulator in erythroid and megakaryocytic differentiation. miR-146b could ultimately affect the expression of the GATA-1 gene, which is regulated by HEY1 (Hairy/enhancer-of-split related with YRPW motif protein 1), a transcriptional repressor, via inhibition of the PDGFRA/JNK/JUN/HEY1 pathway. Lentivirus-mediated gene transfer also demonstrated that the overexpression of miR-146b promoted erythropoiesis and megakaryocytopoiesis of HSPCs via its regulation on the PDGFRA gene and effects on GATA-1 expression. Moreover, we confirmed that the binding of GATA-1 to the miR-146b promoter and induction of miR-146b during hematopoietic maturation were dependent on GATA-1. Therefore, miR-146b, PDGFRA, and GATA-1 formed a regulatory circuit to promote erythroid and megakaryocytic differentiation.
GATA transcription factor family members GATA1 and GATA2 play crucial roles in the regulation of lineage-restricted genes during erythroid differentiation. GATA1 is indispensable for survival and terminal differentiation of erythroid, megakaryocytic and eosinophilic progenitors, whereas GATA2 regulates proliferation and maintenance of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Expression levels of GATA1 and GATA2 are primarily regulated at the transcriptional level through auto- and reciprocal regulatory networks formed by these GATA factors. The dynamic and strictly controlled change of expression from GATA2 to GATA1 during erythropoiesis has been referred to as GATA factor switching, which plays a crucial role in erythropoiesis. The regulatory network comprising GATA1 and GATA2 gives rise to the stage-specific changes in Gata1 and Gata2 gene expression during erythroid differentiation, which ensures specific expression of early and late erythroid genes at each stage. Recent studies have also shed light on the genome-wide binding profiles of GATA1 and GATA2, and the significance of epigenetic modification of Gata1 gene during erythroid differentiation. This review summarizes the current understanding of network regulation underlying stage-dependent Gata1 and Gata2 gene expressions and the functional contribution of these GATA factors in erythroid differentiation.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) represent a class of small non-coding regulatory RNAs that play important roles in normal hematopoiesis, including erythropoiesis. Although studies have identified several miRNAs that regulate erythroid commitment and differentiation, we do not understand the mechanism by which the crucial erythroid transcription factors, GATA-1and NF-E2 directly regulate and control differentiation via miRNA pathways. In this study, we identified miR-199b-5p as a key regulator of human erythropoiesis, and its expression was up-regulated during the erythroid differentiation of K562 cells. Furthermore, the increase of miR-199b-5p in erythroid cells occurred in a GATA-1- and NF-E2-dependent manner during erythrocyte maturation. Both GATA-1 and NF-E2 bound upstream of the miR-199b gene locus and activated its transcription. Forced expression of miRNA-199b-5p in K562 cells affected erythroid cell proliferation and maturation. Moreover, we identified c-Kit as a direct target of miR-199b-5p in erythroid cells. Taken together, our results establish a functional link among the erythroid transcription factors GATA-1/NF-E2, miR-199b-5p and c-Kit, and provide new insights into the coupling of transcription and post-transcription regulation in erythroid differentiation.
Key transcriptional regulators of terminal erythropoiesis, such as GATA-binding factor 1 (GATA1) and T-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia protein 1 (TAL1), have been well characterized, but transcription factors and cofactors and their expression modulations have not yet been explored on a global scale. Here, we use global gene expression analysis to identify 28 transcription factors and 19 transcriptional cofactors induced during terminal erythroid differentiation whose promoters are enriched for binding by GATA1 and TAL1. Utilizing protein-protein interaction databases to identify cofactors for each transcription factor, we pinpoint several co-induced pairs, of which E2f2 and its cofactor transcription factor Dp-2 (Tfdp2) were the most highly induced. TFDP2 is a critical cofactor required for proper cell cycle control and gene expression. GATA1 and TAL1 are bound to the regulatory regions of Tfdp2 and upregulate its expression and knockdown of Tfdp2 results in significantly reduced rates of proliferation as well as reduced upregulation of many erythroid-important genes. Loss of Tfdp2 also globally inhibits the normal downregulation of many E2F2 target genes, including those that regulate the cell cycle, causing cells to accumulate in S phase and resulting in increased erythrocyte size. Our findings highlight the importance of TFDP2 in coupling the erythroid cell cycle with terminal differentiation and validate this study as a resource for future work on elucidating the role of diverse transcription factors and coregulators in erythropoiesis.
Interferon (IFN)-γ is a proinflammatory cytokine that is linked to erythropoiesis inhibition and may contribute to anemia. However, the mechanism of IFN-γ-inhibited erythropoiesis is unknown. Activin A, a member of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-β superfamily, induces the erythropoiesis of hematopoietic progenitor cells. In this study, a luciferase reporter assay showed that IFN-γ suppressed activin A-induced ζ-globin promoter activation in K562 erythroblast cells in a dose-dependent manner. Activin A reversed the suppressive effect of IFN-γ on the luciferase activity of ζ-globin promoter in a dose-dependent manner. IFN-γ also suppressed the activation of activin A-induced α-globin promoter. IFN-γ reduced the mRNA expression of α-globin, ζ-globin, NF-E2p45, and GATA-1 induced by activin A. The results also showed that IFN-γ induced c-Jun expression when NF-κBp65 and c-Jun bound to two AP-1-binding sites on the c-Jun promoter. The luciferase activity of α-globin and ζ-globin promoters were enhanced by wild-type c-Jun and eliminated by dominant-negative (DN) c-Jun. The suppressive effects of IFN-γ on the mRNA expression of α-globin and ζ-globin were absent in cells expressing DN c-Jun. The ability of NF-E2 to enhance activin A-induced ζ-globin promoter activation decreased when c-Jun was present, and IFN-γ treatment further enhanced the decreasing effect of c-Jun. Chromatin immunoprecipitation revealed that NF-E2p45 bound to the upstream regulatory element (HS-40) of the α-globin gene cluster in response to activin A, whereas c-Jun eliminated this binding. These results suggest that IFN-γ modulates NF-κB/c-Jun to antagonize activin A-mediated NF-E2 transcriptional activity on globin gene expression.
Elucidation of the genetic pathways that control red blood cell development has been a central goal of erythropoiesis research over the past decade. Notably, data from several recent studies have provided new insights into the regulation of erythroid gene transcription. Transcription profiling demonstrates that erythropoiesis is mainly controlled by a small group of lineage-restricted transcription factors [Gata binding protein 1 (Gata1), T cell acute lymphocytic leukemia 1 protein (Tal1), and Erythroid Kruppel-like factor (EKLF; henceforth referred to as Klf1)]. Binding-site mapping using ChIP-Seq indicates that most DNA-bound Gata1 and Tal1 proteins are contained within higher order complexes (Ldb1 complexes) that include the nuclear adapters Ldb1 and Lmo2. Ldb1 complexes regulate Klf1, and Ldb1 complex-binding sites frequently colocalize with Klf1 at erythroid genes and cis-regulatory elements, indicating strong functional synergy between Gata1, Tal1, and Klf1. Together with new data demonstrating that Ldb1 can mediate long-range promoter-enhancer interactions, these findings provide a foundation for the first comprehensive models of the global regulation of erythroid gene transcription.
We used the paradigmatic GATA-PU.1 axis to explore, at the systems level, dynamic relationships between transcription factor (TF) binding and global gene expression programs as multipotent cells differentiate. We combined global ChIP-seq of GATA1, GATA2, and PU.1 with expression profiling during differentiation to erythroid and neutrophil lineages. Our analysis reveals (1) differential complexity of sequence motifs bound by GATA1, GATA2, and PU.1; (2) the scope and interplay of GATA1 and GATA2 programs within, and during transitions between, different cell compartments, and the extent of their hard-wiring by DNA motifs; (3) the potential to predict gene expression trajectories based on global associations between TF-binding data and target gene expression; and (4) how dynamic modeling of DNA-binding and gene expression data can be used to infer regulatory logic of TF circuitry. This rubric exemplifies the utility of this cross-platform resource for deconvoluting the complexity of transcriptional programs controlling stem/progenitor cell fate in hematopoiesis.
The transcription factor GATA1 is essential for erythroid and megakaryocytic cell differentiation. Gata1 hematopoietic regulatory domain (G1HRD) has been shown to recapitulate endogenous Gata1 gene expression in transgenic mouse assays in vivo. G1HRD contains a promoter-proximal enhancer composed of a GATA-palindrome motif, four CP2-binding sites and two CACCC boxes. We prepared transgenic reporter mouse lines in which green fluorescent protein and β-galactosidase expression are driven by wild-type G1HRD (as a positive control) and the G1HRD harboring mutations within these cis-acting elements (as the experimental conditions), respectively. Exploiting this transgenic dual reporter (TDR) assay, we show here that in definitive erythropoiesis, G1HRD activity was markedly affected by individual mutations in the GATA-palindrome motif and the CACCC boxes. Mutation of CP2-binding sites also moderately decreased G1HRD activity. The combined mutation of the CP2-binding sites and the GATA-palindrome motif resulted in complete loss of G1HRD activity. In contrast, in primitive erythroid cells, individual mutations of each element did not affect G1HRD activity; G1HRD activity was abolished only when these three mutations were combined. These results thus show that all three elements independently and cooperatively contribute to G1HRD activity in vivo in definitive erythropoiesis, although these are contributing redundantly to primitive erythropoiesis.
GATA1 is a master regulator of hematopoietic differentiation, but Gata1 expression is inactivated in hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Using a bacterial artificial chromosome containing the Gata1 gene modified with green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter, we explored the function of the 3.7-kb Gata1 upstream region (GdC region) that harbors 3 core cis-elements: Gata1 hematopoietic enhancer, double GATA-motif, and CACCC-motif. Transgenic GFP expression directed by the Gata1-BAC faithfully recapitulated the endogenous Gata1 expression pattern. However, deletion of the GdC-region eliminated reporter expression in all hematopoietic cells. To test whether the combination of the core cis-elements represents the regulatory function of the GdC-region, we replaced the region with a 659-bp minigene that linked the three cis-elements (MG-GFP). The GFP reporter expression directed by the MG-GFP BAC fully recapitulated the erythroid-megakaryocytic Gata1 expression. However, the GFP expression was aberrantly increased in the HSCs and was associated with decreases in DNA methylation and abundant GATA2 binding to the transgenic MG-GFP allele. The 3.2-kb sequences interspaced between the Gata1 hematopoietic enhancer and the double GATA-motif were able to recruit DNA methyltransferase 1, thereby exerting a cis-repressive function in the HSC-like cell line. These results indicate that the 3.2-kb interspacing sequences inactivate Gata1 by maintaining DNA-methylation in the HSCs.
The intense physiologic demand to generate vast numbers of red blood cells requires the establishment of a complex genetic network by the master regulatory transcription factor GATA-1 and its coregulators. This network dictates the genesis of enucleated erythrocytes by orchestrating the survival, proliferation, and differentiation of progenitor cells. In addition to the crucial GATA-1 coregulator Friend of GATA-1 (FOG-1), a component of the Mediator complex, Med1, facilitates GATA-1-dependent transcription at select target genes and controls erythropoiesis. It is not known to what extent Med1 contributes to GATA-1 function or whether Med1 controls a large or restricted cohort of genes that are not regulated by GATA-1. Using a genetic complementation assay in GATA-1-null erythroid cells, we demonstrate that Med1 and another Mediator component, Med25, regulate a restricted cohort of genes that are predominantly not controlled by GATA-1. Most of these genes were not regulated by Med1 in fibroblasts. Loss-of-function analyses with GATA-1-independent Med1 target genes indicate that Rrad, which encodes a small GTPase induced during human erythropoiesis, conferred erythroid cell survival. Thus, while Med1 is a context-dependent GATA-1 coregulator, it also exerts specialized functions in erythroid cells to control GATA-1-independent, cell-type-specific genes, which include candidate regulators of erythroid cell development and function.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are characterized by dyserythropoiesis resulting in anemia. This pathological hallmark is incompletely understood. Notch signaling has been linked to impaired erythropoietic and megakaryopoietic development of CD34+ progenitor cells, but its role in MDS is unclear. We have analyzed the transcriptional activity of Notch pathway elements and its association with the key erythroid factor globin transcription factor 1 (GATA1) and the apoptosis regulatory gene B-cell lymphoma-xl (BCLxl) in MDS. The methylation of GATA1 erythroid promoter CpG dinucleotides flanking cis-regulatory elements, including an N-box suppressor binding site for HES1 and a GATA-box binding site, was examined in normal and MDS erythropoiesis. We have generated a kinetic in vitro model of MDS erythropoiesis using CD34+ bone marrow cells from healthy donors (n = 7) and patients with MDS (low risk: RA/n = 6, RARS/n = 3; high risk: RAEB/n = 4, RAEB-T/n = 2). RNA expression of GATA1, BCLxl, DLK1, Notch1, HES1, and HERP2 was measured by real-time RT-PCR (qPCR). DNA methylation at seven CpG dinucleotides of the GATA1 gene promoter was quantitatively analyzed by pyrosequencing of bisulfite-treated genomic DNA at any specific time point. For the Notch pathway elements, no conclusive expression differences were found between MDS and normal erythropoiesis. But we found steadily up-regulated RNA expression of GATA1 and of BCLxl during late normal erythropoietic differentiation. In contrast, during MDS, erythropoiesis a loss of typical up-regulation of GATA1 and BCLxl was observed. Hypermethylation of CpG dinucleotides flanking the repressor HES1 binding site within the 5' region of GATA1 was detected particularly during late MDS erythropoiesis. Interestingly, decremental GATA1 promotor methylation values were seen during normal erythropoiesis matching GATA1 RNA up-regulation. Our data show that the critical erythropoietic transcription factor GATA1 as well as the antiapoptotic molecule BCLxl fails to be normally up-regulated during MDS erythropoiesis. The higher residual 5'-GATA1 methylation values in MDS erythropoiesis but decremental loss thereof in normal erythropoiesis suggest a gene dose effect for GATA1 during erythropoiesis being finely tuned by CpG methylation. Its dysregulation may contribute to the ineffective erythropoiesis observed in MDS.
Mitoferrin 1 (Mfrn1; Slc25a37) and mitoferrin 2 (Mfrn2; Slc25a28) function as essential mitochondrial iron importers for heme and Fe/S cluster biogenesis. A genetic deficiency of Mfrn1 results in a profound hypochromic anemia in vertebrate species. To map the cis-regulatory modules (CRMs) that control expression of the Mfrn genes, we utilized genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) datasets for the major erythroid transcription factor GATA-1. We identified the CRMs that faithfully drive the expression of Mfrn1 during blood and heart development and Mfrn2 ubiquitously. Through in vivo analyses of the Mfrn-CRMs in zebrafish and mouse, we demonstrate their functional and evolutionary conservation. Using knockdowns with morpholinos and cell sorting analysis in transgenic zebrafish embryos, we show that GATA-1 directly regulates the expression of Mfrn1. Mutagenesis of individual GATA-1 binding cis elements (GBE) demonstrated that at least two of the three GBE within this CRM are functionally required for GATA-mediated transcription of Mfrn1. Furthermore, ChIP assays demonstrate switching from GATA-2 to GATA-1 at these elements during erythroid maturation. Our results provide new insights into the genetic regulation of mitochondrial function and iron homeostasis and, more generally, illustrate the utility of genome-wide ChIP analysis combined with zebrafish transgenesis for identifying long-range transcriptional enhancers that regulate tissue development.
Developmental control mechanisms often use multimeric complexes containing transcription factors, coregulators, and additional non-DNA binding components. It is challenging to ascertain how such components contribute to complex function at endogenous loci. We analyzed the function of components of a complex containing master regulators of hematopoiesis (GATA-1 and Scl/TAL1) and the non-DNA binding components ETO2, the LIM domain protein LMO2, and the chromatin looping factor LDB1. Surprisingly, we discovered that ETO2 and LMO2 regulate distinct target-gene ensembles in erythroid cells. ETO2 commonly repressed GATA-1 function via suppressing histone H3 acetylation, although it also regulated methylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 at select loci. Prior studies defined multiple modes by which GATA-1 regulates target genes with or without the coregulator Friend of GATA-1 (FOG-1). LMO2 selectively repressed genes that GATA-1 represses in a FOG-1-independent manner. As LMO2 controls hematopoiesis, its dysregulation is leukemogenic, and its influence on GATA factor function is unknown, this mechanistic link has important biological and pathophysiological implications. The demonstration that ETO2 and LMO2 exert qualitatively distinct functions at endogenous loci illustrates how components of complexes containing master developmental regulators can impart the capacity to regulate unique cohorts of target genes, thereby diversifying complex function.
GATA-1-dependent transcription is essential for erythroid differentiation and maturation. Suppression of programmed cell death is also thought to be critical for this process; however, the link between these two features of erythropoiesis has remained elusive. Here, we show that the POZ-Krüppel family transcription factor, LRF (also known as Zbtb7a/Pokemon), is a direct target of GATA1 and plays an essential antiapoptotic role during terminal erythroid differentiation. We find that loss of Lrf leads to lethal anemia in embryos, due to increased apoptosis of late-stage erythroblasts. This programmed cell death is Arf and p53 independent and is instead mediated by upregulation of the proapoptotic factor Bim. We identify Lrf as a direct repressor of Bim transcription. In strong support of this mechanism, genetic Bim loss delays the lethality of Lrf-deficient embryos and rescues their anemia phenotype. Thus, our data define a key transcriptional cascade for effective erythropoiesis, whereby GATA-1 suppresses BIM-mediated apoptosis via LRF.
Hematopoietic transcription factors GATA-1 and PU.1 bind each other on DNA to block transcriptional programs of undesired lineage during hematopoietic commitment. Murine erythroleukemia (MEL) cells that coexpress GATA-1 and PU.1 are blocked at the blast stage but respond to molecular removal (downregulation) of PU.1 or addition (upregulation) of GATA-1 by inducing terminal erythroid differentiation. To test whether GATA-1 blocks PU.1 in MEL cells, we have conditionally activated a transgenic PU.1 protein fused with the estrogen receptor ligand-binding domain (PUER), resulting in activation of a myeloid transcriptional program. Gene expression arrays identified components of the PU.1-dependent transcriptome negatively regulated by GATA-1 in MEL cells, including CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha (Cebpa) and core-binding factor, beta subunit (Cbfb), which encode two key hematopoietic transcription factors. Inhibition of GATA-1 by small interfering RNA resulted in derepression of PU.1 target genes. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and reporter assays identified PU.1 motif sequences near Cebpa and Cbfb that are co-occupied by PU.1 and GATA-1 in the leukemic blasts. Significant derepression of Cebpa and Cbfb is achieved in MEL cells by either activation of PU.1 or knockdown of GATA-1. Furthermore, transcriptional regulation of these loci by manipulating the levels of PU.1 and GATA-1 involves quantitative increases in a transcriptionally active chromatin mark: acetylation of histone H3K9. Collectively, we show that either activation of PU.1 or inhibition of GATA-1 efficiently reverses the transcriptional block imposed by GATA-1 and leads to the activation of a myeloid transcriptional program directed by PU.1.
The nuclear protein FOG-1 binds transcription factor GATA-1 to facilitate erythroid and megakaryocytic maturation. However, little is known about the function of FOG-1 during myeloid and lymphoid development or how FOG-1 expression is regulated in any tissue. We used in situ hybridization, gain- and loss-of-function studies in zebrafish to address these problems. Zebrafish FOG-1 is expressed in early hematopoietic cells, as well as heart, viscera, and paraspinal neurons, suggesting that it has multifaceted functions in organogenesis. We found that FOG-1 is dispensable for endoderm specification but is required for endoderm patterning affecting the expression of late-stage T-cell markers, independent of GATA-1. The suppression of FOG-1, in the presence of normal GATA-1 levels, induces severe anemia and thrombocytopenia and expands myeloid-progenitor cells, indicating that FOG-1 is required during erythroid/myeloid commitment. To functionally interrogate whether GATA-1 regulates FOG-1 in vivo, we used bioinformatics combined with transgenic assays. Thus, we identified 2 cis-regulatory elements that control the tissue-specific gene expression of FOG-1. One of these enhancers contains functional GATA-binding sites, indicating the potential for a regulatory loop in which GATA factors control the expression of their partner protein FOG-1.
GATA-1 is a lineage-restricted transcription factor that plays essential roles in hematopoietic development. The Gata1 gene hematopoietic enhancer allowed Gata1 reporter expression in erythroid cells and megakaryocytes of transgenic mice. The Gata1 hematopoietic enhancer activity is strictly dependent on a GATA site located in the 5' region of the enhancer. However, the importance of the GC-rich region adjacent to the 3'-end of this GATA site has been also suggested. In this study, we show that this GC-rich region contains five contiguous deoxyguanosine residues (G(5) string) that are bound by multiple nuclear proteins. Interestingly, deletion of one deoxyguanosine residue from the G(5) string (G(4) mutant) specifically eliminates binding to ZBP-89, a Krüppel-like transcription factor, but not to Sp3 and other binding factors. We demonstrate that GATA-1 and ZBP-89 occupy chromatin regions of the Gata1 enhancer and physically associate in vitro through zinc finger domains. Gel mobility shift assays and DNA affinity precipitation assays suggest that binding of ZBP-89 to this region is reduced in the absence of GATA-1 binding to the G1HE. Luciferase reporter assays demonstrate that ZBP-89 activates the Gata1 enhancer depending on the G(5) string sequence. Finally, transgenic mouse studies reveal that the G(4) mutation significantly reduced the reporter activity of the Gata1 hematopoietic regulatory domain encompassing an 8.5-kbp region of the Gata1 gene. These data provide compelling evidence that the G(5) string is necessary for Gata1 gene expression in vivo and ZBP-89 is the functional trans-acting factor for this cis-acting region.
Transcription factors originally identified as drivers of erythroid differentiation subsequently became linked to megakaryopoiesis, reflecting the shared parentage of red cells and platelets. The divergent development of megakaryocytic and erythroid progenitors relies on signaling pathways that impose lineage-specific transcriptional programs on non-lineage-restricted protein complexes. One such signaling pathway involves RUNX1, a transcription factor upregulated in megakaryocytes and downregulated in erythroid cells. In this pathway, RUNX1 engages the erythro-megakaryocytic master regulator GATA-1 in a megakaryocytic transcriptional complex whose activity is highly dependent on the P-TEFb kinase complex. The implications of this pathway for normal and pathological megakaryopoiesis are discussed.
Hematopoietic stem cell lineage choices are decided by genetic networks that are turned ON/OFF in a switch-like manner. However, prior to lineage commitment, genes are primed at low expression levels. Understanding the underlying molecular circuitry in terms of how it governs both a primed state and, at the other extreme, a committed state is of relevance not only to hematopoiesis but also to developmental systems in general. We develop a computational model for the hematopoietic erythroid-myeloid lineage decision, which is determined by a genetic switch involving the genes PU.1 and GATA-1. Dynamical models based upon known interactions between these master genes, such as mutual antagonism and autoregulation, fail to make the system bistable, a desired feature for robust lineage determination. We therefore suggest a new mechanism involving a cofactor that is regulated as well as recruited by one of the master genes to bind to the antagonistic partner that is necessary for bistability and hence switch-like behavior. An interesting fallout from this architecture is that suppression of the cofactor through external means can lead to a loss of cooperativity, and hence to a primed state for PU.1 and GATA-1. The PU.1-GATA-1 switch also interacts with another mutually antagonistic pair, C/EBPalpha-FOG-1. The latter pair inherits the state of its upstream master genes and further reinforces the decision due to several feedback loops, thereby leading to irreversible commitment. The genetic switch, which handles the erythroid-myeloid lineage decision, is an example of a network that implements both a primed and a committed state by regulating cooperativity through recruitment of cofactors. Perturbing the feedback between the master regulators and downstream targets suggests potential reprogramming strategies. The approach points to a framework for lineage commitment studies in general and could aid the search for lineage-determining genes.
Chromatin from different regions of the genome frequently forms steady associations that play important roles in regulating gene expression. The widely used chromatin conformation capture (3C) assay allows determination of the in vivo structural organization of an active endogenous locus. However, unpredicted chromatin associations within a given genomic locus can not be identified by 3C. Here, we describe a new strategy, quantitative associated chromatin trap (QACT), which incorporates a modified 3C method and a quantitative assay tool, to capture and quantitatively analyzes all possible associated chromatin partners (ACPs) of a given chromatin fragment. Using QACT, we have analyzed the chromatin conformation of the mouse alpha-globin gene cluster and proved the extensive interaction between HS26 and alpha-globin genes. In addition, we have identified a candidate alpha1-globin gene specific silencer 475A8 which shows the differentiation-stage specific DNase I hypersensitivity. Functional analysis suggests that 475A8 may regulate the alpha1-globin gene during terminal differentiation of committed erythroid progenitor cells. ChIP (chromatin immunoprecipitation) and cotransfection assays demonstrate that GATA-1, a hemopoietic specific transcriptional factor, may increase alpha1-globin gene expression by suppressing the function of 475A8 in terminally differentiated erythroid cells.
Autophagy is a process that leads to the degradation of unnecessary or dysfunctional cellular components and long-lived protein aggregates. Erythropoiesis is a branch of hematopoietic differentiation by which mature red blood cells (RBCs) are generated from multi-potential hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Autophagy plays a critical role in the elimination of mitochondria, ribosomes and other organelles during erythroid terminal differentiation. Here, the modulators of autophagy that regulate erythroid differentiation were summarized, including autophagy-related (Atg) genes, the B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) family member Bcl-2/adenovirus E1B 19 kDa interacting protein 3-like (Nix/Binp3L), transcription factors globin transcription factor 1 (GATA1) and forkhead box O3 (FoxO3), intermediary factor KRAB-associated protein1 (KAP1), and other modulators, such as focal adhesion kinase family-interacting protein of 200-kDa (FIP200), Ca2+ and 15-lipoxygenase. Understanding the modulators of autophagy in erythropoiesis will benefit the autophagy research field and facilitate the prevention and treatment of autophagy-related red blood cell disorders.
Growth factor independence 1 (Gfi-1) is a part of the transcriptional network that regulates the development of adult hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Gfi-1-null (Gfi-1(-/-)) mice have reduced numbers of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), impaired radioprotective function of hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs), and myeloid and erythroid hyperplasia. We found that the development of HPCs and erythropoiesis, but not HSC function, was rescued by reducing the expression of inhibitor of DNA-binding protein 2 (Id2) in Gfi-1(-/-) mice. Analysis of Gfi-1(-/-);Id2(+/-) mice revealed that short-term HSCs, common myeloid progenitors (CMPs), erythroid burst-forming units, colony-forming units in spleen, and more differentiated red cells were partially restored by reducing Id2 levels in Gfi-1(-/-) mice. Moreover, short-term reconstituting cells, and, to a greater extent, CMP and megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitor development, and red blood cell production (anemia) were rescued in mice transplanted with Gfi-1(-/-);Id2(+/-) bone marrow cells (BMCs) in comparison with Gfi-1(-/-) BMCs. Reduction of Id2 expression in Gfi-1(-/-) mice increased the expression of Gata1, Eklf, and EpoR, which are required for proper erythropoiesis. Reducing the levels of other Id family members (Id1 and Id3) in Gfi-1(-/-) mice did not rescue impaired HPC function or erythropoiesis. These data provide new evidence that Gfi-1 is linked to the erythroid gene regulatory network by repressing Id2 expression.
The directed differentiation toward erythroid (E) or megakaryocytic (MK) lineages by the MK-E progenitor (MEP) could enhance the ex vivo generation of red blood cells and platelets for therapeutic transfusions. The lineage choice at the MEP bifurcation is controlled in large part by activity within the intracellular signal transduction network, the output of which determines the activity of transcription factors (TFs) and ultimately gene expression. Although many TFs have been implicated, E or MK differentiation is a complex process requiring multiple days, and the dynamics of TF activities during commitment and terminal maturation are relatively unexplored. Herein, we applied a living cell array for the large-scale, dynamic quantification of TF activities during MEP bifurcation. A panel of hematopoietic TFs (GATA-1, GATA-2, SCL/TAL1, FLI-1, NF-E2, PU.1, c-Myb) was characterized during E and MK differentiation of bipotent K562 cells. Dynamic TF activity profiles associated with differentiation towards each lineage were identified, and validated with previous reports. From these activity profiles, we show that GATA-1 is an important hub during early hemin- and PMA-induced differentiation, and reveal several characteristic TF interactions for E and MK differentiation that confirm regulatory mechanisms documented in the literature. Additionally, we highlight several novel TF interactions at various stages of E and MK differentiation. Furthermore, we investigated the mechanism by which nicotinamide (NIC) promoted terminal MK maturation using an MK-committed cell line, CHRF-288-11 (CHRF). Concomitant with its enhancement of ploidy, NIC strongly enhanced the activity of three TFs with known involvement in terminal MK maturation: FLI-1, NF-E2, and p53. Dynamic profiling of TF activity represents a novel tool to complement traditional assays focused on mRNA and protein expression levels to understand progenitor cell differentiation.
The MED1 subunit of the Mediator transcriptional coregulator complex coactivates GATA1 and induces erythropoiesis. Here, we show the dual mechanism of GATA1- and MED1-mediated transcription. MED1 expression levels in K562 erythroleukemia cells paralleled the levels of GATA1-targeted gene transcription and erythroid differentiation. An N-terminal fragment of MED1, MED1(1-602), which is incapable of interacting with GATA1, enhanced GATA1-targeted gene transcription and erythroid differentiation, and introduction of MED1(1-602) into Med1(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) partially rescued GATA1-mediated transcription. The C-terminal zinc-finger domain of GATA1 interacts with the MED1(1-602)-interacting coactivator CCAR1, CoCoA and MED1(681-715). CCAR1 and CoCoA synergistically enhanced GATA1-mediated transcription from the γ-globin promoter in MEFs. Recombinant GATA1, CCAR1, CoCoA and MED1(1-602) formed a complex in vitro, and GATA1, CCAR1, CoCoA and MED1 were recruited to the γ-globin promoter in K562 cells during erythroid differentiation. Therefore, in addition to the direct interaction between GATA1 and MED1, CoCoA and CCAR1 appear to relay the GATA1 signal to MED1, and multiple modes of the GATA1-MED1 axis may help to fine-tune GATA1 function during GATA1-mediated homeostasis events.
Erythropoiesis is regulated at multiple levels to ensure the proper generation of mature red cells under multiple physiological conditions. To probe the contribution of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) to this process, we examined >1 billion RNA-seq reads of polyadenylated and nonpolyadenylated RNA from differentiating mouse fetal liver red blood cells and identified 655 lncRNA genes including not only intergenic, antisense, and intronic but also pseudogene and enhancer loci. More than 100 of these genes are previously unrecognized and highly erythroid specific. By integrating genome-wide surveys of chromatin states, transcription factor occupancy, and tissue expression patterns, we identify multiple lncRNAs that are dynamically expressed during erythropoiesis, show epigenetic regulation, and are targeted by key erythroid transcription factors GATA1, TAL1, or KLF1. We focus on 12 such candidates and find that they are nuclear-localized and exhibit complex developmental expression patterns. Depleting them severely impaired erythrocyte maturation, inhibiting cell size reduction and subsequent enucleation. One of them, alncRNA-EC7, is transcribed from an enhancer and is specifically needed for activation of the neighboring gene encoding BAND 3. Our study provides an annotated catalog of erythroid lncRNAs, readily available through an online resource, and shows that diverse types of lncRNAs participate in the regulatory circuitry underlying erythropoiesis.
Transcriptional networks orchestrate complex developmental processes, and such networks are commonly instigated by master regulators for development. By now, considerable progress has been made in elucidating GATA factor-dependent genetic networks that control red blood cell development. Here we reported that GATA-1 and GATA-2 co-regulated the expression of two microRNA genes, microRNA-27a and microRNA-24, with critical roles in regulating erythroid differentiation. In general, GATA-2 occupied the miR-27a≈24 promoter and repressed their transcription in immature erythroid progenitor cells. As erythropoiesis proceeded, GATA-1 directly activated miR-27a≈24 transcription, and this involved a GATA-1-mediated displacement of GATA-2 from chromatin, a process termed 'GATA switch'. Furthermore, the mature miR-27a and miR-24 cooperatively inhibited GATA-2 translation and favoured the occupancy switch from GATA-2 to GATA-1, thus completing a positive feedback loop to promote erythroid maturation. In line with the essential role of GATA factors, ectopic expression of miR-27a or miR-24 promoted erythropoiesis in human primary CD34+ haematopoietic progenitor cells and mice, whereas attenuated miR-27 or miR-24 level led to impaired erythroid phenotypes in haematopoietic progenitor cells and zebrafish. Taken together, these data integrated micro RNA expression and function into GATA factor coordinated networks and provided mechanistic insight into a regulatory circuit that comprised GATA1/2 switch and miR-27a/24 in erythropoiesis.
The establishment and maintenance of cell type-specific transcriptional programs require an ensemble of broadly expressed chromatin remodeling and modifying enzymes. Many questions remain unanswered regarding the contributions of these enzymes to specialized genetic networks that control critical processes, such as lineage commitment and cellular differentiation. We have been addressing this problem in the context of erythrocyte development driven by the transcription factor GATA-1 and its coregulator Friend of GATA-1 (FOG-1). As certain GATA-1 target genes have little to no FOG-1 requirement for expression, presumably additional coregulators can mediate GATA-1 function. Using a genetic complementation assay and RNA interference in GATA-1-null cells, we demonstrate a vital link between GATA-1 and the histone H4 lysine 20 methyltransferase PR-Set7/SetD8 (SetD8). GATA-1 selectively induced H4 monomethylated lysine 20 at repressed, but not activated, loci, and endogenous SetD8 mediated GATA-1-dependent repression of a cohort of its target genes. GATA-1 used different combinations of SetD8, FOG-1, and the FOG-1-interacting nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase complex component Mi2β to repress distinct target genes. Implicating SetD8 as a context-dependent GATA-1 corepressor expands the repertoire of coregulators mediating establishment/maintenance of the erythroid cell genetic network, and provides a biological framework for dissecting the cell type-specific functions of this important coregulator. We propose a coregulator matrix model in which distinct combinations of chromatin regulators are required at different GATA-1 target genes, and the unique attributes of the target loci mandate these combinations.
Differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells to red cells requires coordinated expression of numerous erythroid genes and is characterized by nuclear condensation and extrusion during terminal development. To understand the regulatory mechanisms governing these widespread phenotypic changes, we conducted a high resolution methylomic and transcriptomic analysis of six major stages of human erythroid differentiation. We observed widespread epigenetic differences between early and late stages of erythropoiesis with progressive loss of methylation being the dominant change during differentiation. Gene bodies, intergenic regions, and CpG shores were preferentially demethylated during erythropoiesis. Epigenetic changes at transcription factor binding sites correlated significantly with changes in gene expression and were enriched for binding motifs for SCL, MYB, GATA, and other factors not previously implicated in erythropoiesis. Demethylation at gene promoters was associated with increased expression of genes, whereas epigenetic changes at gene bodies correlated inversely with gene expression. Important gene networks encoding erythrocyte membrane proteins, surface receptors, and heme synthesis proteins were found to be regulated by DNA methylation. Furthermore, integrative analysis enabled us to identify novel, potential regulatory areas of the genome as evident by epigenetic changes in a predicted PU.1 binding site in intron 1 of the GATA1 gene. This intronic site was found to be conserved across species and was validated to be a novel PU.1 binding site by quantitative ChIP in erythroid cells. Altogether, our study provides a comprehensive analysis of methylomic and transcriptomic changes during erythroid differentiation and demonstrates that human terminal erythropoiesis is surprisingly associated with hypomethylation of the genome.
scube1 (signal peptide-CUB (complement protein C1r/C1s, Uegf, and Bmp1)-EGF domain-containing protein 1), the founding member of a novel secreted and cell surface SCUBE protein family, is expressed predominantly in various developing tissues in mice. However, its function in primitive hematopoiesis remains unknown. In this study, we identified and characterized zebrafish scube1 and analyzed its function by injecting antisense morpholino-oligonucleotide into embryos. Whole-mount in situ hybridization revealed that zebrafish scube1 mRNA is maternally expressed and widely distributed during early embryonic development. Knockdown of scube1 by morpholino-oligonucleotide down-regulated the expression of marker genes associated with early primitive hematopoietic precursors (scl) and erythroid (gata1 and hbbe1), as well as early (pu.1) and late (mpo and l-plastin) myelomonocytic lineages. However, the expression of an early endothelial marker fli1a and vascular morphogenesis appeared normal in scube1 morphants. Overexpression of bone morphogenetic protein (bmp) rescued the expression of scl in the posterior lateral mesoderm during early primitive hematopoiesis in scube1 morphants. Biochemical and molecular analysis revealed that Scube1 could be a BMP co-receptor to augment BMP signaling. Our results suggest that scube1 is critical for and functions at the top of the regulatory hierarchy of primitive hematopoiesis by modulating BMP activity during zebrafish embryogenesis.
Carbonic anhydrase 1 (Car1), an early specific marker of the erythroid differentiation, has been used to distinguish fetal and adult erythroid cells since its production closely follows the γ- to β-globin transition, but the molecular mechanism underlying transcriptional regulation of Car1 is unclear. Here, we show that Car1 mRNA decreases significantly when erythroid differentiation is induced in MEL cells. The Ldb1 protein complex including GATA1/SCL/LMO2 binds to the Car1 promoter in uninduced cells and reduced enrichment of the complex during differentiation correlates with loss of Car1 expression. Knockdown of Ldb1 results in a reduction of Ser2 phosphorylated RNA Pol II and Cdk9 at the Car1 promoter region, suggesting that Ldb1 is required for recruitment of Pol II as well as the transcription regulator P-TEFb to enhance elongation of Car1 transcripts. Taken together, these data show that Ldb1 forms a regulatory complex to maintain Car1 expression in erythroid cells.
To observe the differentiation-inducing properties of the novel erythroid differentiation related gene EDRF1, and demonstrate its functioning pathway involved in regulation of alpha- and gamma-globin gene expression.
EDRF1 sense and antisense constructs were transfected into HEL cells, then the expression of globin and erythropoietin receptor gene was identified by Northern blot analysis. RT-PCR and electrophoresis mobility shift assay (EMSA) were carried out to monitor the expression and DNA-binding activity of erythroid specific transcription factor GATA-1 and NF-E2.
In HEL cells with transfection of sense expression carrier, the experssion of EDRF1 mRNA was upregulated. In HEL cells with transfection of antisense expression carrier, the experession of EDRF1 mRNA was downregulated. In HEL cells with overexpression of EDRF1, production of alpha-globin was increased. In antisense EDRF1 overexpressed HEL cells, significant loss of alpha- and gamma-globin mRNA synthesis was observed. The expression of erythropoietin receptor was unchanged in HEL cells transfected with EDRF1 sense and antisense expression carriers. No significant change was found in expression of transcription factors GATA-1 and NF-E2 in HEL cells transfected with empty carrier, sense expression carrier, and antisense expression carrier. However, the transcription activity of GATA-1 was severely impaired. Expression of erythropoietin receptor gene was not influenced by EDRF1 gene overexpression.
EDRF1 regulates alpha- and gamma-globin gene synthesis by modulating DNA-binding activity of GATA-1 transcription factor. Overexpression and underexpression of EDRF1 do not significantly regulate the expression of GATA-1 and NF-E2 mRNA. Monitoring the EPOR signal pathway is not the mechanism by which EDRF1 influences the differentiation of erythrocyte.
To further characterize the differentiation inducing properties of EDRF1 and demonstrate its functional pathway involved in regulation of globin gene expression.
By transfecting EDRF1 sense and antisense constructs into HEL cells, we identified the expression of globin and erythropoietin receptor genes by Northern blot analysis. RT-PCR and EMSA (electrophoresis mobility shift assay) were performed to monitor the expression and DNA-binding activity of erythroid specific transcription factors GATA-1 and NF-E2.
It was shown that when EDRF1 was overexpressed, production of alpha-globin increased. In antisense EDRF1, overexpression of HEL cells, significant loss of alpha-, gamma-globin mRNA synthesis was observed. The transcription of endogenous GATA-1 and NF-E2 mRNA expression were maintained at the same levels compared with control experiments. However, the transcription activity of GATA-1 was severely impaired. Expression of erythropoietin receptor gene was not influenced by EDRF1 gene overexpression.
The results suggested that EDRF1 regulated alpha- and gamma-globin gene synthesis by modulating DNA-binding activity of GATA-1 transcription factor.
Because of an extra copy of the Aβ precursor protein (APP) gene on chromosome 21, Down syndrome (DS) individuals develop high levels of Aβ peptides and Alzheimer's disease-like brain amyloidosis early in life. Here we show that the γ-secretase activating protein (GSAP), a key enzyme in amyloidogenesis, is increased in DS brains and specifically regulated at the transcriptional level by GATA1 transcription factor. The discovery of this novel pathway has translational implications for DS since pharmacological inhibition of GSAP is an attractive and viable Aβ lowering therapeutic strategy for this disorder. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
The clear connection between ribosome biogenesis dysfunction and specific hematopoiesis-related disorders prompted us to examine the role of critical lineage-specific transcription factors in the transcriptional regulation of ribosomal protein (RP) genes during terminal erythroid differentiation. By applying EMSA and ChIP methodologies in mouse erythroleukemia cells we show that GATA1 and PU.1 bind in vitro and in vivo the proximal promoter region of the RPS19 gene which is frequently mutated in Diamond-Blackfan Anemia. Moreover, ChIPseq data analysis also demonstrates that several RP genes are enriched as potential GATA1 and PU.1 gene targets in mouse and human erythroid cells, with GATA1 binding showing an association with higher ribosomal protein gene expression levels during terminal erythroid differentiation in human and mouse. Our results suggest that RP gene expression and hence balanced ribosome biosynthesis may be specifically and selectively regulated by lineage specific transcription factors during hematopoiesis, a finding which may be clinically relevant to ribosomopathies.
Splenomegaly is a major manifestation of primary myelofibrosis (PMF) contributing to clinical symptoms and hematologic abnormalities. The spleen from PMF patients contains increased numbers of hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) and megakaryocytes. These megakaryocytes express high levels of P-selectin (P-sel) that, by triggering neutrophil emperipolesis, may cause TGF-β release and disease progression. This hypothesis was tested by deleting the P-sel gene in the myelofibrosis mouse model carrying the hypomorphic Gata1(low) mutation that induces megakaryocyte abnormalities that recapitulate those observed in PMF. P-sel(null) Gata1(low) mice survived splenectomy and lived three months longer than P-sel(WT) Gata1(low) littermates and expressed limited fibrosis and osteosclerosis in the marrow or splenomegaly. Furthermore, deletion of P-sel disrupted megakaryocyte/neutrophil interactions in spleen, reduced TGF-β content and corrected the HSC distribution that in Gata1(low) mice, as in PMF patients, is abnormally expanded in spleen. Conversely, pharmacological inhibition of TGF-β reduced P-sel expression in megakaryocytes and corrected HSC distribution. Spleens, but not marrow, of Gata1(low) mice contained numerous cKIT(pos) activated fibrocytes, probably of dendritic cell origin, whose membrane protrusions interacted with megakaryocytes establishing niches hosting immature cKIT(pos) hematopoietic cells. These activated fibrocytes were not detected in spleens from P-sel(null) Gata1(low) or TGF-β-inhibited Gata1(low) littermates and were observed in spleen, but not in marrow, from PMF patients. Therefore in Gata1(low) mice, and possibly in PMF, abnormal P-sel expression in megakaryocytes may mediate the pathological cell interactions that increase TGF-β content in MK and favor establishment of a microenvironment that supports myelofibrosis-related HSC in spleen. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
The zebrafish (Danio rerio) is a very popular vertebrate model system, especially embryos represent a valuable tool for in vivo pharmacological assays. This is mainly due to the zebrafish advantages when compared to other animal models. Erythropoietin is a glycoprotein hormone that acts principally on erythroid progenitors, stimulating their survival, proliferation and differentiation. Recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) has been widely used in medicine to treat anemia and it is one of the best-selling biotherapeutics worldwide. The recombinant molecule, industrially produced in CHO cells, has the same amino acid sequence of endogenous human erythropoietin, but differs in the glycosylation pattern. This may influence efficacy and safety, particularly immunogenicity, of the final product. We employed the zebrafish embryo as a vertebrate animal model to perform in vivo pharmacological assays. We conducted a functional analysis of rhEPO alpha Eprex(®) and two biosimilars, the erythropoietin alpha Binocrit(®) and zeta Retacrit(®). By in silico analysis and 3D modeling we proved the interaction between recombinant human erythropoietin and zebrafish endogenous erythropoietin receptor. Then we treated zebrafish embryos with the 3 rhEPOs and we investigated their effect on erythrocytes production with different assays. By real time-PCR we observed the relative upregulation of gata1 (2.4±0.3 fold), embryonic α-Hb (1.9±0.2 fold) and β-Hb (1.6±0.1 fold) transcripts. A significant increase in Stat5 phosphorylation was also assessed in embryos treated with rhEPOs when compared with the negative controls. Live imaging in tg (kdrl:EGFP; gata1:ds-red) embryos, o-dianisidine positive area quantification and cyanomethemoglobin content quantification revealed a 1.8±0.3 fold increase of erythrocytes amount in embryos treated with rhEPOs when compared with the negative controls. Finally, we verified that recombinant human erythropoietins did not cause any inflammatory response in the treated embryos. Our data showed that zebrafish embryo can be a valuable tool to study in vivo effects of complex pharmacological compounds, such as recombinant human glycoproteins, allowing to perform fast and reproducible pharmacological assays with excellent results.
The generation of blood cellular components from hematopoietic stem cells is important for the therapy of a broad spectrum of hematological disorders. In recent years, several lines of evidence suggested that certain nutrients, vitamins and flavonoids may have important roles in controlling the stem cell fate decision by maintaining their self-renewal or stimulating the lineage-specific differentiation. In this study, main olive leaf phytochemicals oleuropein (Olp), apigenin 7-glucoside (Api7G) and luteolin 7-glucoside (Lut7G) were investigated for their potential effects on hematopoietic stem cell differentiation using both phenotypic and molecular analysis. Oleuropein and the combination of the three compounds enhanced the differentiation of CD34+ cells into myelomonocytic cells and lymphocytes progenitors and inhibited the commitment to megakaryocytic and erythroid lineages. Treatment with Lut7G stimulated both the erythroid and the myeloid differentiation, while treatment with Api7G specifically induced the differentiation of CD34+ cells towards the erythroid lineage and inhibited the myeloid differentiation. Erythroid differentiation induced by Api7G and Lut7G treatments was confirmed by the increase in hemoglobin genes expressions (α-hemoglobin, β-hemoglobin and γ-hemoglobin) and erythroid transcription factor GATA1 expression. As revealed by microarray analysis, the mechanisms underlying the erythroid differentiation-inducing effect of Api7G on hematopoietic stem cells involves the activation of JAK/STAT signaling pathway. These findings prove the differentiation-inducing effects of olive leaf compounds on hematopoietic stem cells and highlight their potential use in the ex vivo generation of blood cells.
FcεRI, which is composed of α, β, and γ subunits, plays an important role in IgE-mediated allergic responses. TGF-β1 has been reported to suppress FcεRI and stem cell factor receptor c-Kit expression on mast cell surfaces and to suppress mast cell activation induced by cross-linking of FcεRI. However, the molecular mechanism by which these expressions and activation are suppressed by TGF-β1 remains unclear. In this study, we found that the expression of Ets homologous factor (Ehf), a member of the Ets family transcriptional factors, is upregulated by TGF-β/Smad signaling in mouse bone marrow-derived mast cells (BMMCs). Forced expression of Ehf in BMMCs repressed the transcription of genes encoding FcεRIα, FcεRIβ, and c-Kit, resulting in a reduction in cell surface FcεRI and c-Kit expression. Additionally, forced expression of Ehf suppressed FcεRI-mediated degranulation and cytokine production. Ehf inhibited the promoter activity of genes encoding FcεRIα, FcεRIβ, and c-Kit by binding to these gene promoters. Furthermore, the mRNA levels of Gata1, Gata2, and Stat5b were lower in BMMCs stably expressing Ehf compared with control cells. Because GATA-1 and GATA-2 are positive regulators of FcεRI and c-Kit expression, decreased expression of GATAs may be also involved in the reduction of FcεRI and c-Kit expression. Decreased expression of Stat5 may contribute to the suppression of cytokine production by BMMCs. In part, mast cell response to TGF-β1 was mimicked by forced expression of Ehf, suggesting that TGF-β1 suppresses FcεRI and c-Kit expression and suppresses FcεRI-mediated activation through upregulation of Ehf.
Although numerous efforts have been made, the pathogenesis underlying lung squamous-cell carcinoma (SCC) remains unclear. This study aimed to identify the CNV-driven genes by an integrated analysis of both the gene differential expression and copy number variation (CNV).
A higher burden of the CNVs was found in 10-50 kb length. The 16 CNV-driven genes mainly located in chr 1 and chr 3 were enriched in immune response [e.g. complement factor H (CFH) and Fc fragment of IgG, low affinity IIIa, receptor (FCGR3A)], starch and sucrose metabolism [e.g. amylase alpha 2A (AMY2A)]. Furthermore, 38 TFs were screened for the 9 CNV-driven genes and then the regulatory network was constructed, in which the GATA-binding factor 1, 2, and 3 (GATA1, GATA2, GATA3) jointly regulated the expression of TP63.
The above CNV-driven genes might be potential contributors to the development of lung SCC.
The Antarctic icefish, a family (Channichthyidae) of teleosts within the perciform suborder Notothenioidei, are the only known vertebrates without oxygen-transporting haemoglobins and that are largely devoid of circulating erythrocytes. To elucidate the evo-devo mechanisms underpinning the suppressed erythropoiesis in the icefish, we conducted comparative studies on the transcriptomes and microRNAomes of the primary haematopoietic tissues between an icefish (Chionodraco hamatus) and two red-blooded notothenioids (Trematomus bernacchii and Gymnodraco acuticeps). We identified substantial remodelling of the haematopoietic programs in the icefish through which erythropoiesis is selectively suppressed. Experimental verification showed that erythropoietic suppression in the icefish may be attributable to the upregulation of TGF-β signalling, which coincides with reductions in multiple transcription factors essential for erythropoiesis and the upregulation of hundreds of microRNAs, the majority (> 80%) of which potentially target erythropoiesis regulating factors. Of the six microRNAs selected for verification, three miRNAs (miR-152, miR-1388 and miR-16b) demonstrated suppressive functions on GATA1 and ALAS2, which are two factors important for erythroid differentiation, resulting in reduced numbers of erythroids in microinjected zebra fish embryos. Codon substitution analyses of the genes of the TGF-β superfamily revealed signs of positive selection in TGF-β1 and endoglin in the lineages leading to Antarctic notothenioids. Both genes are previously known to function in erythropoietic suppression. These findings implied a general trend of erythropoietic suppression in the cold-adapted notothenioid lineages through evolutionary modulation of the multi-functional TGF-β signalling pathway. This trend is more pronounced in the haemoglobin-less icefish, which may pre-emptively hinder the otherwise defective erythroids from production.
Diamond Blackfan Anemia (DBA) is an inherited bone marrow failure syndrome with clinical features of red cell aplasia and variable developmental abnormalities. Most affected patients have heterozygous loss of function mutations in ribosomal protein genes but the pathogenic mechanism is still unknown. We generated induced pluripotent stem cells from DBA patients carrying RPS19 or RPL5 mutations. Transcriptome analysis revealed the striking dysregulation of the transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) signaling pathway in DBA lines. Expression of TGFβ target genes, such as TGFBI, BAMBI, COL3A1 and SERPINE1 was significantly increased in the DBA iPSCs. We quantified intermediates in canonical and non-canonical TGFβ pathways and observed a significant increase in the levels of the non-canonical pathway mediator p-JNK in the DBA iPSCs. Moreover, when the mutant cells were corrected by ectopic expression of WT RPS19 or RPL5, levels of p-JNK returned to normal. Surprisingly, nuclear levels of SMAD4, a mediator of canonical TGFβ signaling, were decreased in DBA cells due to increased proteolytic turnover. We also observed the up-regulation of TGFβ1R, TGFβ2, CDKN1A and SERPINE1 mRNA, and the significant decrease of GATA1 mRNA in the primitive multilineage progenitors. In summary our observations identify for the first time a dysregulation of the TGFβ pathway in the pathobiology of DBA.
The transcription factor GATA1 helps regulate the expression of thousands of genes involved in blood development, by binding to single or double GATA sites on DNA. An important part of gene activation is chromatin looping, the bringing together of DNA elements that lie up to many thousands of basepairs apart in the genome. It was recently suggested, based on studies of the closely related protein GATA3, that GATA-mediated looping may involve interactions of each of two zinc fingers (ZF) with distantly spaced DNA elements. Here we present a structure of the GATA1 ZF region bound to pseudopalindromic double GATA site DNA, which is structurally equivalent to a recently-solved GATA3-DNA complex. However, extensive analysis of GATA1-DNA binding indicates that although the N-terminal ZF (NF) can modulate GATA1-DNA binding, under physiological conditions the NF binds DNA so poorly that it cannot play a direct role in DNA-looping. Rather, the ability of the NF to stabilize transcriptional complexes through protein-protein interactions, and thereby recruit looping factors such as Ldb1, provides a more compelling model for GATA-mediated looping.
Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMKL) comprises between 4% and 15% of newly diagnosed pediatric acute myeloid leukemia patients. AMKL in children with Down syndrome (DS) is characterized by a founding GATA1 mutation that cooperates with trisomy 21, followed by the acquisition of additional somatic mutations. In contrast, non-DS-AMKL is characterized by chimeric oncogenes consisting of genes known to play a role in normal hematopoiesis. CBFA2T3-GLIS2 is the most frequent chimeric oncogene identified to date in this subset of patients and confers a poor prognosis.
A significant proportion of recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (RRP) is caused by human papillomavirus type 6 (HPV-6). The long control region (LCR) contains cis-elements for regulation of transcription. Our aim was to characterize LCR HPV-6 variants in RRP cases, compare promoter activity of these isolates and search for cellular transcription factors (TFs) that could explain the differences observed. The complete LCR from 13 RRP was analyzed. Transcriptional activity of 5 variants was compared using luciferase assays. Differences in putative TFs binding sites among variants were revealed using the TRANSFAC database. Chromatin immunoprecipation (CHIP) and luciferase assays were used to evaluate TF binding and impact upon transcription, respectively. Juvenile-onset RRP cases harbored exclusively HPV-6vc related variants, whereas among adult-onset cases HPV-6a variants were more prevalent. The HPV-6vc reference was more transcriptionally active than the HPV-6a reference. Active FOXA1, ELF1 and GATA1 binding sites overlap variable nucleotide positions among isolates and influenced LCR activity. Furthermore, our results support a crucial role for ELF1 on transcriptional downregulation. We identified TFs implicated in the regulation of HPV-6 early gene expression. Many of these factors are mutated in cancer or are putative cancer biomarkers, and must be further studied.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an immune-mediated demyelinating disease of the CNS that has been linked with defects in regulatory T cell function. Therefore, strategies to selectively target pathogenic cells via enhanced regulatory T cell activity may provide therapeutic benefit. Kv1.3 is a voltage-gated potassium channel expressed on myelin-reactive T cells from MS patients. Kv1.3-knockout (KO) mice are protected from experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, an animal model of MS, and Kv1.3-KO Th cells display suppressive capacity associated with increased IL-10. In this article, we demonstrate that myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-specific Kv1.3-KO Th cells exhibit a unique regulatory phenotype characterized by high CD25, CTLA4, pSTAT5, FoxO1, and GATA1 expression without a corresponding increase in Foxp3. These phenotypic changes result from increased signaling through IL-2R. Moreover, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-specific Kv1.3-KO Th cells can ameliorate experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis following transfer to wild-type recipients in a manner that is partially dependent on IL-2R and STAT5 signaling. The present study identifies a population of Foxp3(-) T cells with suppressive properties that arises in the absence of Kv1.3 and enhances the understanding of the molecular mechanism by which these cells are generated. This increased understanding could contribute to the development of novel therapies for MS patients that promote heightened immune regulation.
Myeloid malignancy with Down syndrome (ML-DS) is estimated to have a step-wise leukemogenesis including GATA1 mutation. Trisomy 21 is essential for ML-DS; however, we do not know exactly which gene or genes located on chromosome 21 are necessary for the ML-DS. We report a female infant with transient myeloproliferative disorder (TMD) and partial trisomy 21. SNP array analysis showed 10 Mb amplification of 21q22.12-21q22.3, which included DYRK1A, ERG, and ETS but not the RUNX1 gene. With two other reported TMD cases having partial trisomy 21, DYRK1A, ERG, and ETS were the most likely genes involved in collaboration with the GATA1 mutation. Pediatr Blood Cancer © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The use of in vitro colony assays in mammals has contributed to identification of erythroid progenitor cells such as burst-forming unit-erythroid (BFU-E) and colony-forming unit-erythroid (CFU-E) progenitors, and serves to examine functions of erythropoietic growth factors like Erythropoietin (Epo) and Kit ligand. Here, we established an in vitro colony-forming assay capable of investigating erythropoiesis in carp (Cyprinus carpio), cloned and functionally characterized recombinant homologous molecules Epo and Kit ligand A (Kitla), and identified three distinct erythroid progenitor cells in carp. Recombinant carp Epo induced the formation of CFU-E-like and BFU-E-like erythroid colonies, expressing erythroid marker genes, β-globin, epor and gata1. Recombinant carp Kitla alone induced limited colony formation, whereas a combination of Kitla and Epo dramatically enhanced erythroid colony formation and colony cell growth, as well as stimulated the formation of thrombocytic/erythroid colonies expressing not only erythroid markers but also thrombocytic markers, cd41 and c-mpl. Utilizing this colony assay to examine the distribution of distinct erythroid progenitor cells in carp, we demonstrated that carp head and trunk kidney play a primary role in erythropoiesis, while the spleen plays a secondary. Furthermore, we showed that presumably bi-potent thrombocytic/erythroid progenitor cells localize principally in the trunk kidney. Our results indicate that teleost fish possess mechanisms of Epo- and Kitla-dependent erythropoiesis similar to those in other vertebrates, and also help to demonstrate the diversity of erythropoietic sites among vertebrates.
NF-κB is an important regulator of both differentiation and function of lineage-committed hematopoietic cells. Targeted deletion of IκB kinase (IKK) β results in altered cytokine signaling and marked neutrophilia. To investigate the role of IKKβ in regulation of hematopoiesis, we employed Mx1-Cre mediated IKKβ conditional knockout mice. As previously reported, deletion of IKKβ in hematopoietic cells results in neutrophilia, and we now also noted decreased monocytes and modest anemia. Granulocyte-macrophage progenitors (GMPs) accumulated markedly in bone marrow of IKKβ deleted mice whereas the proportion and number of megakaryocyte-erythrocyte progenitors (MEP) decreased. Accordingly, we found a significantly reduced frequency of proerythroblasts and basophilic and polychromatic erythroblasts, and IKKβ-deficient bone marrow cells yielded a significantly decreased number of BFU-E compared to wild type. These changes are associated with elevated expression of C/EBPα, Gfi1, and PU.1 and diminished Gata1, Klf1, and SCL/Tal1 in IKKβ deficient Lineage-Sca1+c-Kit+ (LSK) cells. In contrast, no effect on erythropoiesis or expression of lineage-related transcription factors was found in marrow lacking NF-κB p65. Bone marrow from IKKβ knockout mice has elevated numbers of phenotypic long and short term hematopoietic stem cells (HSC). A similar increase was observed when IKKβ was deleted after marrow transplantation into a wild type host, indicating cell autonomous expansion. Myeloid progenitors from IKKβ- but not p65-deleted mice demonstrate increased serial replating in colony-forming assays, indicating increased cell autonomous self-renewal capacity. In addition, in a competitive repopulation assay deletion of IKKβ resulted in a stable advantage of bone marrow derived from IKKβ knockout mice. In summary, loss of IKKβ resulted in significant effects on hematopoiesis not seen upon NF-κB p65 deletion. These include increased myeloid and reduced erythroid transcription factors, skewing differentiation towards myeloid over erythroid differentiation, increased progenitor self-renewal, and increased number of functional long term HSCs. These data inform ongoing efforts to develop IKK inhibitors for clinical use.
Oogenesis is essential for female gamete production in mammals. The total number of ovarian follicles is determined early in life and production of ovarian oocytes is thought to stop during the lifetime. However, the molecular mechanisms underling oogenesis, particularly autophagy regulation in the ovary, remain largely unknown. Here, we reveal an important MYBL2-VDAC2-BECN1-BCL2L1 pathway linking autophagy suppression in the developing ovary. The transcription factors GATA1 and MYBL2 can bind to and activate the Vdac2 promoter. MYBL2 regulates the spatiotemporal expression of VDAC2 in the developing ovary. Strikingly, in the VDAC2 transgenic pigs (Sus scrofa/Ss), VDAC2 exerts its function by inhibiting autophagy in the ovary. In contrast, Vdac2 knockout promotes autophagy. Moreover, VDAC2-mediated autophagy suppression is dependent on its interactions with both BECN1 and BCL2L1 to stabilize the BECN1 and BCL2L1 complex, suggesting VDAC2 as an autophagy suppressor in the pathway. Our findings provide a functional connection among the VDAC2, MYBL2, the BECN1-BCL2L1 pathway and autophagy suppression in the developing ovary, which is implicated in improving female fecundity.
Insulin/IGF-1 signaling (IIS) pathway is known to control growth, development and reproduction. Insulin-like peptide mediated body size plasticity in Drosophila melanogaster has been reported. Here, our studies showed that IIS pathway and nutrition regulate growth and maturation of the male accessory gland (MAG) in the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum. The size of MAG increased from day 1 to day 5 post-adult emergence (PAE). This increase in the size of MAG is contributed by an increase in cell size, but not cell number. The growth of MAG was impaired after double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-mediated knockdown in the expression of genes coding for ILP3, InR, Chico, PI3k, AKT, and GATA1 involved in IIS pathway. Interestingly, starvation showed similar effects on the growth and maturation of MAG. The phenotypes observed in animals where IIS signaling pathway genes were knocked down are similar to the phenotypes observed after starving beetles for 5 days PAE. These data suggest that nutrition signals working through IIS pathway regulate maturation of MAG by promoting the growth of MAG cells.
Erythropoiesis, in which committed progenitor cells generate millions of erythrocytes daily, involves dramatic changes in the chromatin structure and transcriptome of erythroblasts, prior to their enucleation. While the involvement of the master-regulatory transcription factors GATA binding protein 1 (GATA-1) and GATA-2 in this process is established, the mechanistic contributions of many chromatin-modifying/remodeling enzymes in red cell biology remain enigmatic. We demonstrated that SetD8, a histone methyltransferase that catalyzes monomethylation of histone H4 at lysine 20 (H4K20me1), is a context-dependent GATA-1 corepressor in erythroid cells. To determine whether SetD8 controls erythroid maturation and/or function, we used a small hairpin RNA (shRNA)-based loss-of-function strategy in a primary murine erythroblast culture system. In this system, SetD8 promoted erythroblast maturation and survival, and this did not involve upregulation of the established regulator of erythroblast survival Bcl-x(L). SetD8 catalyzed H4K20me1 at a critical Gata2 cis element and restricted occupancy by an enhancer of Gata2 transcription, Scl/TAL1, thereby repressing Gata2 transcription. Elevating GATA-2 levels in erythroid precursors yielded a maturation block comparable to that induced by SetD8 downregulation. As lowering GATA-2 expression in the context of SetD8 knockdown did not rescue erythroid maturation, we propose that SetD8 regulation of erythroid maturation involves multiple target genes. These results establish SetD8 as a determinant of erythroid cell maturation and provide a framework for understanding how a broadly expressed histone-modifying enzyme mediates cell-type-specific GATA factor function.
The unremitting demand to replenish differentiated cells in tissues requires efficient mechanisms to generate and regulate stem and progenitor cells. Although master regulatory transcription factors, including GATA binding protein-2 (GATA-2), have crucial roles in these mechanisms, how such factors are controlled in developmentally dynamic systems is poorly understood. Previously, we described five dispersed Gata2 locus sequences, termed the -77, -3.9, -2.8, -1.8, and +9.5 GATA switch sites, which contain evolutionarily conserved GATA motifs occupied by GATA-2 and GATA-1 in hematopoietic precursors and erythroid cells, respectively. Despite common attributes of transcriptional enhancers, targeted deletions of the -2.8, -1.8, and +9.5 sites revealed distinct and unpredictable contributions to Gata2 expression and hematopoiesis. Herein, we describe the targeted deletion of the -3.9 site and mechanistically compare the -3.9 site with other GATA switch sites. The -3.9(-/-) mice were viable and exhibited normal Gata2 expression and steady-state hematopoiesis in the embryo and adult. We established a Gata2 repression/reactivation assay, which revealed unique +9.5 site activity to mediate GATA factor-dependent chromatin structural transitions. Loss-of-function analyses provided evidence for a mechanism in which a mediator of long-range transcriptional control [LIM domain binding 1 (LDB1)] and a chromatin remodeler [Brahma related gene 1 (BRG1)] synergize through the +9.5 site, conferring expression of GATA-2, which is known to promote the genesis and survival of hematopoietic stem cells.
There are many examples of transcription factor families whose members control gene expression profiles of diverse cell types. However, the mechanism by which closely related factors occupy distinct regulatory elements and impart lineage specificity is largely undefined. Here we demonstrate on a genome wide scale that the hematopoietic GATA factors GATA-1 and GATA-2 bind overlapping sets of genes, often at distinct sites, as a means to differentially regulate target gene expression and to regulate the balance between proliferation and differentiation. We also reveal that the GATA switch, which entails a chromatin occupancy exchange between GATA2 and GATA1 in the course of differentiation, operates on more than one-third of GATA1 bound genes. The switch is equally likely to lead to transcriptional activation or repression; and in general, GATA1 and GATA2 act oppositely on switch target genes. In addition, we show that genomic regions co-occupied by GATA2 and the ETS factor ETS1 are strongly enriched for regions marked by H3K4me3 and occupied by Pol II. Finally, by comparing GATA1 occupancy in erythroid cells and megakaryocytes, we find that the presence of ETS factor motifs is a major discriminator of megakaryocyte versus red cell specification.
The transcription factor GATA1 regulates multiple genes in erythroid lineage cells. However, the means by which GATA1 regulates the expression of target genes during erythropoiesis remains to be elucidated. Three mechanisms have been postulated for the regulation of genes by GATA1. First, individual target genes may have multiple discrete thresholds for cellular GATA1. GATA1 has a dynamic expression profile during erythropoiesis, thus the expression of a set of GATA1 target genes may be triggered at a given stage of differentiation by cellular GATA1. Second, the expression of GATA1 target genes may be modified, at least in part, by GATA2 occupying the GATA-binding motifs. GATA2 is expressed earlier in erythropoiesis than GATA1, and prior GATA2 binding may afford GATA1 access to GATA motifs through epigenetic remodeling and thus facilitate target gene expression. Third, other regulatory molecules specific to each target gene may function cooperatively with GATA1. If GATA1 is required for the expression of such cofactors, a regulatory network will be formed and relevant gene expression will be delayed. We propose that the stage-specific regulation of erythroid genes by GATA1 is tightly controlled through a combination of these mechanisms in vivo.
Efforts have been made to understand how erythroid differentiation is regulated, and recent discoveries have clarified that lineage-specific transcription factor networks are essential for proper differentiation of erythroid cells. The transcription factors GATA1 and GATA2 are involved in such networks that regulate erythroid gene expression. Importantly, expression of Gata1 and Gata2 genes is also under the control of such regulatory networks. The present review is focused on the mechanism of Gata1 and Gata2 gene regulation during erythropoiesis and the physiological significance of their dynamic regulation.
Gata1 and Gata2 genes are regulated by multiple transcription factors, including their own products GATA1 and GATA2. GATA1 and GATA2 recognize specific regulatory GATA motifs, and their expression levels change dynamically during erythroid differentiation, leading to diversified gene expression during erythropoiesis.
Strict regulations of the Gata1 and Gata2 genes are critical for proper lineage commitment and development of erythroid cells. It has been shown in transgenic mouse analyses that cis-acting GATA binding motifs are critical for the expression of Gata1 and Gata2 genes. Furthermore, expression of Gata1 and Gata2 genes along with a set of erythroid genes appeared to be regulated by GATA factor switching.
The hierarchical gene regulatory network in hematopoiesis is highly complex, making elucidation of the processes of specification and differentiation of hematopoietic cells a challenging task. Recent discoveries have divulged the GATA factors as central to the genetic control of hematopoiesis. In particular, hematopoietic development is subject to extensive and precise regulation of GATA-1 and GATA-2 at the molecular level. We wish to emphasize the regulatory relationships between GATA-1 and GATA-2 implicated in cell development. An advanced experimental genetic approach has provided evidence that abnormalities in this network may result in a variety of blood disorders. The most striking new finding is the novel pathogenesis arising from GATA-1 dysfunction that leads to leukemia.
HEL cells, a human erythroleukemia cell line, expressing mainly the gamma-globin genes, small amount of epsilon-globin gene, but not beta-globin gene. Our previous studies demonstrated that beta-globin gene could be expressed in HEL cells induced by hydroxyurea. However, the molecular mechenism is still unknown. Here the binding patterns of GATA factors (GATA-1 and GATA-2) to the regulatory elements of human beta-globin gene were examined with the nuclear extracts from hydroxyurea-induced and uninduced HEL cells. Our results showed in EMSA assay that GATA factors could bind to the core sequence of HS2(-10681 to -10971 bp), the 3' flanking sequence of HS2 core(-10323 to -10680 bp) and the promoter of human beta-globin gene(+20 to -112 bp). However, the binding patterns between hydroxyurea-induced and uninduced HEL cells were different. Furthermore, by using Western-blot analysis, our data showed that the amount of GATA-2 was decreased in hydroxyurea-induced HEL cells. In contrast to GATA-2, the amount of GATA-1 was increased in hydroxyurea-induced HEL cells. These results showed that the different members of GATA family might play different roles during the differentiation of erythrocytes. GATA-1 may stimulate the differentiation of HEL cells, while GATA-2 can probably inhibit the differentiation of HEL cells.
The transcription factors GATA-1 and GATA-2 play key roles in gene regulation during erythropoiesis. Gene ablation studies in mouse revealed that GATA-2 is crucial for the maintenance and proliferation of immature hematopoietic progenitors, whereas GATA-1 is essential for the survival of erythroid progenitors as well as the terminal differentiation of erythroid cells. Both GATA-1 and GATA-2 are regulated in a cell-type-specific manner, their expression being strictly controlled during the development and differentiation of erythroid cells. Closer examination revealed a cross-regulatory mechanism by which GATA-1 can control the expression of GATA-2 and vice versa, possibly via essential GATA binding sites in their cis-acting elements. In addition, recent studies identified several human inherited hematopoietic disorders that are caused by mutations in cis-acting GATA binding motifs or mutations in GATA-1 itself.
HEL cells, a human erythroleukemia cell line, mainly express the fetal (gamma) globin gene and trace amount of the embryonic (epsilon) globin gene, but not adult (beta) globin gene. Here we show that hydroxyurea (HU) can induce HEL cells to express adult (beta) globin gene and lead these cells to terminal differentiation. Results showed in Gel mobility shift assays that GATA factors could specifically bind to the regulatory elements of human beta-globin gene, including the proximal regulatory element (the beta-promoter) and the distal regulatory elements (the DNase I hypersensitive sites in the LCR, HS2-HS4 core sequences). However, the DNA binding patterns of GATA factors were quite different between HU-induced and uninduced HEL cells. Western-blot analysis of nuclear extracts from both the uninduced and HU-induced HEL cells revealed that the level of GATA-2 transcription factor decreased, whereas the level of GATA-1 transcription factor increased following the time of hydroxyurea induction. Furthermore, using RT-PCR analysis the expression of human beta-globin gene in HU-induced HEL cells could be blocked again when HEL cells were incubated in the presence of antisense oligonucleotides for hGATA-1, suggesting that the upregulation of hGATA-1 transcription factor might be critical for the expression of human beta-globin gene in HU-induced HEL cells.
GATA-1 and GATA-2 transcription factors are required for effective hematopoiesis. These regulatory proteins present overlapping yet distinct patterns of expression in hematopoietic cells. Absence of GATA-2 leads to defective hematopoiesis and an embryonic lethal phenotype. Disruption of GATA-1 results in a compensatory increase in GATA-2 in early erythroid cells and incomplete erythropoiesis with embryos dying at 11.5 days. We examine the specific role of GATA-2 later in hematopoiesis, during erythroid differentiation. Stable K562 cell lines expressing various levels of GATA-2 were generated using a GATA-2 expression plasmid. Overexpression of GATA-2 transcripts was determined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Cytospin smears, growth curve analysis, PCR, and flow cytometry were used to examine the effects of increased levels of GATA-2 in altering cell phenotype and activation of megakaryocytic markers. Human progenitor erythroid cells also were transfected with a GATA-2 expression vector. Growth curve analysis, benzidine staining, and high-performance liquid chromatographic analysis were used to study the effects of GATA-2 on erythroid maturation and proliferation.K562/GATA-2 cell lines expressing high levels of GATA-2 mRNA showed a marked decrease in proliferation and a shift in phenotype toward the megakaryocyte lineage. Ploidy analyses showed that these cell lines developed a multinuclear phenotype, including tetraploids and octaploids. PCR analysis showed activation of megakaryocyte-specific genes including thrombopoietin receptor (c-mpl). Surface expression of platelet glycoprotein receptors Ib/IX (CD42b/CD42a) and IIb/IIIa (CD41/CD61) also was demonstrated by flow cytometry. In primary human adult erythroid cultures transfected with a GATA-2 expression vector, production of total hemoglobin and cell proliferation decreased in a dose-dependent manner.GATA-2 plays an important role in deciding cell lineage throughout hematopoiesis, and increased expression of GATA-2 determines megakaryocytic differentiation. Downregulation of GATA-2 is required for erythroid differentiation.
The production of red blood cells follows the sequential formation of proerythroblasts and basophilic, polychromatophilic and orthochromatic erythroblasts, and is promoted by the hormone erythropoietin (Epo) in response to tissue hypoxia. However, little is known about the negative regulation of this process. Death receptors are a family of surface molecules that trigger caspase activation and apoptosis in a variety of cell types. Here we show that immature erythroid cells express several death receptors whose ligands are produced by mature erythroblasts. Exposure of erythroid progenitors to mature erythroblasts or death-receptor ligands resulted in caspase-mediated degradation of the transcription factor GATA-1, which is associated with impaired erythroblast development. Expression of a caspase-resistant GATA-1 mutant, but not of the wild-type gene, completely restored erythroid expansion and differentiation following the triggering of death receptors, indicating that there is regulatory feedback between mature and immature erythroblasts through caspase-mediated cleavage of GATA-1. Similarly, erythropoiesis blockade following Epo deprivation was largely prevented by the expression of caspase-inhibitory proteins or caspase-resistant GATA-1 in erythroid progenitors. Caspase-mediated cleavage of GATA-1 may therefore represent an important negative control mechanism in erythropoiesis.
In vitro studies on hematopoietic control mechanisms have been hampered by the heterogeneity of the analyzed cell populations, ie, lack of lineage specificity and developmental stage homogeneity of progenitor/precursor cells growing in culture. We developed unicellular culture systems for unilineage differentiation of purified hematopoietic progenitor cells followed by daughter cell analysis at cellular and molecular level. In the culture system reported here, (1) the growth factor (GF) stimulus induces cord blood (CB) progenitor cells to proliferate and differentiate/mature exclusively along the erythroid lineage; (2) this erythropoietic wave is characterized by less than 4% apoptotic cells; (3) asymmetric divisions are virtually absent, ie, nonresponsive hematopoietic progenitors with no erythropoietic potential are forced into apoptosis; (4) the system is cell division controlled (cdc), ie, the number of divisions performed by each cell is monitored. Single-cell reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis was applied to this culture system to investigate gene expression of diverse receptors, markers of differentiation, and transcription factors (EKLF, GATA-1, GATA-2, p45 NF-E2, PU.1, and SCL/Tal1) at discrete stages of erythropoietic development. Freshly isolated CD34(+) cells expressed CD34, c-kit, PU.1, and GATA-2 but did not express CD36, erythropoietin receptor (EpoR), SCL/Tal1, EKLF, NF-E2, GATA-1, or glyocophorin A (GPA). In early to intermediate stages of erythroid differentiation we monitored the induction of CD36, Tal1, EKLF, NF-E2, and GATA-1 that preceeded expression of EpoR. In late stages of erythroid maturation, GPA was upregulated, whereas CD34, c-kit, PU.1, and GATA-2 were barely or not detected. In addition, competitive single-cell RT-PCR was used to assay CD34 mRNA transcripts in sibling CD34(+)CD38(-) cells differentiating in unilineage erythroid cultures: this analysis allowed us to semiquantitate the gradual downmodulation of CD34 mRNA from progenitor cells through their differentiating erythroid progeny. It is concluded that this novel culture system, coupled with single-cell RT-PCR analysis, may eliminate the ambiguities intrinsic to molecular studies on heterogeneous populations of hematopoietic progenitors/precursors growing in culture, particularly in the initial stages of development.
Granule major basic protein (MBP) is expressed exclusively in eosinophils, basophils, and placental trophoblasts. To identify the cis-elements and transcription factors involved in regulating MBP expression, we subcloned 3.2 kb of sequence upstream of the exon 9 transcriptional start site (P2 promoter) and serial 5' deletions into the pXP2 luciferase reporter vector. An 80% decrement in promoter activity was obtained when MBP sequences between bp -117 to -67 were deleted. To identify transcription factors that bind to and transactivate through the bp -117 to -67 region, we first compared the upstream genomic sequences of human and murine MBP; a potential GATA binding consensus site was conserved in the 50-bp region between the two genes. To determine which GATA proteins bind this consensus site, we performed electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs), which showed that both GATA-1 and GATA-2 can bind to this consensus site. To determine the functionality of this site, we tested whether GATA-1 and GATA-2, either individually or in combination, can transactivate the MBP promoter in the Jurkat T cell line. Cotransfection with a GATA-1 expression vector produced 20-fold augmentation of MBP promoter activity, whereas GATA-2 had no activity. In contrast, combined cotransfection of GATA-1 and GATA-2 decreased the ability of GATA-1 to transactivate the MBP promoter by approximately 50%. Our results provide the first evidence for a GATA-1 target gene in eosinophils, a negative regulatory role for GATA-2 in MBP expression, and possibly eosinophil gene transcription in general during myelopoiesis.
Commitment and differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells are associated with the progressive restriction of cellular proliferation and the progressive expression of a subset of genes encoding the markers of mature cells. These two processes are genetically regulated and, in this paper, I review the expression and function of the GATA family of transcription factors as an example of this genetic regulation. GATA cis-acting elements are found in most of the regulatory regions of T-lymphoid, erythrocytic and megakaryocytic restricted genes. These GATA motifs are recognized by the members of a family of transcriptional regulators: the GATA family. Three members of this family, GATA-1, 2 and 3 are expressed in hematopoietic cells. They are necessary for the erythrocytic and megakaryocytic lineages (GATA-1), for the T-lymphoid lineage (GATA-3), and for the proliferation of uncommitted hematopoietic precursors (GATA-2). GATA-1 displays at least four functions: activation of the erythrocytic and megakaryocytic specific genes, regulation of the epsilon-->gamma globin switch and control of the cell cycle. These two last functions will be discussed to show the multiple facets of GATA-1 in the genetic regulation of hematopoiesis.
The tissue-specific transcription factor GATA-1 is a key regulator of red blood cell differentiation. One seemingly contradictory aspect of GATA-1 function is that, while it is abundant in erythroid progenitor cells prior to the onset of overt differentiation, it does not significantly activate known GATA-1 target genes in those cells. To investigate the mechanisms underlying GATA-1 function during the transition from early to late erythropoiesis, we have examined its expression and activity in normal avian erythroid progenitor cells before and after induction of differentiation. In these primary progenitor cells, GATA-1 protein was predominantly located in the cytoplasm, while induction of differentiation caused its rapid relocalization to the nucleus, suggesting that nuclear translocation constitutes an important regulatory step in GATA-1 activation. As an alternative way of addressing the same question, we also ectopically expressed a GATA-1/estrogen receptor fusion protein (GATA-1/ER) in red blood cell progenitors, where nuclear translocation of, and transcriptional activation by, this hybrid factor are conditionally controlled by estrogen. We found that hormone-activated GATA-1/ER protein accelerated red blood cell differentiation, and concomitantly suppressed cell proliferation. These phenotypic effects were accompanied by a simultaneous suppression of c-myb and GATA-2 transcription, two genes thought to be involved in the proliferative capacity of hematopoietic progenitor cells. Thus, GATA-1 appears to promote differentiation in committed erythroid progenitor cells both by inducing differentiation-specific genes and by simultaneously suppressing genes involved in cell proliferation.
We investigated megakaryocytic differentiation in a newly-established Ph1-positive leukemic cell line, MC3, which showed tri-lineage immunophenotypes (myeloid antigens2+, CD19(1+) and CD41a1+) and was positive for CD34 and CD38. TPA induced MC3 cells to differentiate to an early stage of megakaryocyte lineage exhibiting an increase in the expression of platelet glycoproteins (GP) IIb/IIIa (CD41a), and an increase in cell size and nuclear ploidy. TPA treatment also enhanced the expression of GPIIb mRNA, and induced the expression of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and its receptor mRNAs, while it did not induce transcripts of the genes IL-11 and mpl ligand, and further decreased the transcript of the mpl gene. Consistent with these findings, MC3 cells treated with TPA showed an increased expression of GATA-1, but not GATA-3 transcripts, whereas those without TPA treatment expressed only the GATA-2 transcript. These results provide an insight into the study for the regulatory mechanism of megakaryocytopoiesis and leukemic cell differentiation.
The purpose of this study was to examine the gene expression profile of granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mobilized peripheral blood (mPB)-derived progenitors, used in transplantation.
We correlated gene expression patterns of highly enriched steady-state peripheral blood (PB)- and mPB-derived CD71+ cells by microarray and ingenuity pathway analyses, to identify the transcriptional program during in vitro erythroid differentiation.
The gene expression was more than doubled in mPB-derived (4180 genes) compared to PB-derived erythroid progenitors (1667 genes) while PB-and mPB-derived erythroid progenitors shared 1534 common genes. Comparative analysis of transcript levels showed differential expression of 54 genes between cultured erythroid progenitors of PB and mPB origin, where we identified common 13 downregulated and 30 upregulated genes. The most significant genes in mPB-derived erythroid progenitors were P4HB, DDIA3, ARPC2 and ATP5G3. Regarding G-CSF stimulation the G-CSF receptor CSF2RB (1.1-fold) was linked via STAT3 to erythroid-specific ALAS2 (2.9-fold) and GATA2 (1.3-fold) factors, all upregulated in mPB-derived erythroid progenitors, coupled to common upregulated NUDC gene involved in the proliferation of erythroid cells.
This report provides an extensive transcriptional profile of cultured erythroid progenitors and leads to a better understanding of diversity among the progenitor sources.
Primitive erythropoiesis is regulated in a non cell-autonomous fashion across evolution from frogs to mammals. In Xenopus laevis, signals from the overlying ectoderm are required to induce the mesoderm to adopt an erythroid fate. Previous studies in our lab identified the transcription factor GATA2 as a key regulator of this ectodermal signal. To identify GATA2 target genes in the ectoderm required for red blood cell formation in the mesoderm, we used microarray analysis to compare gene expression in ectoderm from GATA2 depleted and wild type embryos. Our analysis identified components of the non-canonical and canonical Wnt pathways as being reciprocally up- and down-regulated downstream of GATA2 in both mesoderm and ectoderm. We show that up-regulation of canonical Wnt signaling during gastrulation blocks commitment to a hematopoietic fate while down-regulation of non-canonical Wnt signaling impairs erythroid differentiation. Our results are consistent with a model in which GATA2 contributes to inhibition of canonical Wnt signaling, thereby permitting progenitors to exit the cell cycle and commit to a hematopoietic fate. Subsequently, activation of non-canonical Wnt signaling plays a later role in enabling these progenitors to differentiate as mature red blood cells.
GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2) is a transcription factor that has essential roles in hematologic malignancies and progression of various solid tumors. Our previous studies suggested that high GATA2 expression is associated with recurrence of colorectal cancer (CRC). However, the influence of GATA2 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on the survival of CRC remains unknown.
We genotyped GATA2 SNP rs2335052 using Sanger sequencing after PCR amplification, and determined GATA2 expression by immunohistochemistry in a cohort of 180 CRC patients. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and Cox proportional hazard regression were used to analyze the association between the GATA2 rs2335052 genotypes and the clinical outcome of CRC.
We found that there was no significant correlation between the rs2335052 genotypes and the expression of GATA2. However, the Kaplan-Meier survival analysis suggested that the carriers of the A-allele of SNP rs2335052 were significantly associated with increased risk of recurrence and reduced disease-free survival (DFS), compared with those carrying the variant genotype of GG in rs2335052 (P = 0.021). Moreover, univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses revealed that GATA2 SNP rs2335052 was an independent risk factor for the DFS of CRC patients.
Our results demonstrated that GATA2 SNP rs2335052 is an independent predictor for prognosis of CRC patients. This raised the possibility that SNP rs2335052 may serve as a potential indicator for predicting recurrence of CRC after curative colectomy.
The majority of cases with severe pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) are caused by auto-antibodies against GM-CSF. A multitude of genetic and exogenous causes are responsible for few other cases. Goal of this study was to determine the prevalence of GATA2 deficiency in children and adults with PAP and hematologic disorders.
Of 21 patients with GM-CSF-autoantibody negative PAP, 13 had no other organ involvement and 8 had some form of hematologic disorder. The latter were sequenced for GATA2.
Age at start of PAP ranged from 0.3 to 64 years, 4 patients were children. In half of the subjects GATA2-sequence variations were found, two of which were considered disease causing. Those two patients had the typical phenotype of GATA2 deficiency, one of whom additionally showed a previously undescribed feature - a cholesterol pneumonia. Hematologic disorders included chronic myeloic leukemia, juvenile myelo-monocytic leukemia, lymphoblastic leukemia, sideroblastic anemia and two cases of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). A 4 year old child with MDS and DiGeorge Syndrome Type 2 was rescued with repetitive whole lung lavages and her PAP was cured with heterologous stem cell transplant.
In children and adults with severe GM-CSF negative PAP a close cooperation between pneumologists and hemato-oncologists is needed to diagnose the underlying diseases, some of which are caused by mutations of transcription factor GATA2. Treatment with whole lung lavages as well as stem cell transplant may be successful.
Heterozygous germline mutations in the zinc finger transcription factor GATA2 have recently been shown to underlie a range of clinical phenotypes, including Emberger syndrome, a disorder characterized by lymphedema and predisposition to myelodysplastic syndrome/acute myeloid leukemia (MDS/AML). Despite well-defined roles in hematopoiesis, the functions of GATA2 in the lymphatic vasculature and the mechanisms by which GATA2 mutations result in lymphedema have not been characterized. Here, we have provided a molecular explanation for lymphedema predisposition in a subset of patients with germline GATA2 mutations. Specifically, we demonstrated that Emberger-associated GATA2 missense mutations result in complete loss of GATA2 function, with respect to the capacity to regulate the transcription of genes that are important for lymphatic vessel valve development. We identified a putative enhancer element upstream of the key lymphatic transcriptional regulator PROX1 that is bound by GATA2, and the transcription factors FOXC2 and NFATC1. Emberger GATA2 missense mutants had a profoundly reduced capacity to bind this element. Conditional Gata2 deletion in mice revealed that GATA2 is required for both development and maintenance of lymphovenous and lymphatic vessel valves. Together, our data unveil essential roles for GATA2 in the lymphatic vasculature and explain why a select catalogue of human GATA2 mutations results in lymphedema.
Fluid shear forces have established roles in blood vascular development and function, but whether such forces similarly influence the low-flow lymphatic system is unknown. It has been difficult to test the contribution of fluid forces in vivo because mechanical or genetic perturbations that alter flow often have direct effects on vessel growth. Here, we investigated the functional role of flow in lymphatic vessel development using mice deficient for the platelet-specific receptor C-type lectin-like receptor 2 (CLEC2) as blood backfills the lymphatic network and blocks lymph flow in these animals. CLEC2-deficient animals exhibited normal growth of the primary mesenteric lymphatic plexus but failed to form valves in these vessels or remodel them into a structured, hierarchical network. Smooth muscle cell coverage (SMC coverage) of CLEC2-deficient lymphatic vessels was both premature and excessive, a phenotype identical to that observed with loss of the lymphatic endothelial transcription factor FOXC2. In vitro evaluation of lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) revealed that low, reversing shear stress is sufficient to induce expression of genes required for lymphatic valve development and identified GATA2 as an upstream transcriptional regulator of FOXC2 and the lymphatic valve genetic program. These studies reveal that lymph flow initiates and regulates many of the key steps in collecting lymphatic vessel maturation and development.
The ETS transcription factor ERG has been implicated as a major regulator of both normal and aberrant hematopoiesis. In acute myeloid leukemias harboring t(16;21), ERG function is deregulated due to a fusion with FUS/TLS resulting in the expression of a FUS-ERG oncofusion protein. How this oncofusion protein deregulates the normal ERG transcription program is unclear. Here, we show that FUS-ERG acts in the context of a heptad of proteins (ERG, FLI1, GATA2, LYL1, LMO2, RUNX1 and TAL1) central to proper expression of genes involved in maintaining a stem cell hematopoietic phenotype. Moreover, in t(16;21) FUS-ERG co-occupies genomic regions bound by the nuclear receptor heterodimer RXR:RARA inhibiting target gene expression and interfering with hematopoietic differentiation. All-trans retinoic acid treatment of t(16;21) cells as well as FUS-ERG knockdown alleviate the myeloid-differentiation block. Together, the results suggest that FUS-ERG acts as a transcriptional repressor of the retinoic acid signaling pathway.Oncogene advance online publication, 6 July 2015; doi:10.1038/onc.2015.261.
Thousands of cis-elements in genomes are predicted to have vital functions. Although conservation, activity in surrogate assays, polymorphisms, and disease mutations provide functional clues, deletion from endogenous loci constitutes the gold-standard test. A GATA-2-binding, Gata2 intronic cis-element (+9.5) required for hematopoietic stem cell genesis in mice is mutated in a human immunodeficiency syndrome. Because +9.5 is the only cis-element known to mediate stem cell genesis, we devised a strategy to identify functionally comparable enhancers ("+9.5-like") genome-wide. Gene editing revealed +9.5-like activity to mediate GATA-2 occupancy, chromatin opening, and transcriptional activation. A +9.5-like element resided in Samd14, which encodes a protein of unknown function. Samd14 increased hematopoietic progenitor levels/activity and promoted signaling by a pathway vital for hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell regulation (stem cell factor/c-Kit), and c-Kit rescued Samd14 loss-of-function phenotypes. Thus, the hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell cistrome revealed a mediator of a signaling pathway that has broad importance for stem/progenitor cell biology.
We explore cell heterogeneity during spontaneous and transcription-factor-driven commitment for network inference in hematopoiesis. Since individual genes display discrete OFF states or a distribution of ON levels, we compute and combine pairwise gene associations from binary and continuous components of gene expression in single cells. Ddit3 emerges as a regulatory node with positive linkage to erythroid regulators and negative association with myeloid determinants. Ddit3 loss impairs erythroid colony output from multipotent cells, while forcing Ddit3 in granulo-monocytic progenitors (GMPs) enhances self-renewal and impedes differentiation. Network analysis of Ddit3-transduced GMPs reveals uncoupling of myeloid networks and strengthening of erythroid linkages. RNA sequencing suggests that Ddit3 acts through development or stabilization of a precursor upstream of GMPs with inherent Meg-E potential. The enrichment of Gata2 target genes in Ddit3-dependent transcriptional responses suggests that Ddit3 functions in an erythroid transcriptional network nucleated by Gata2.
The transcription factor GATA2 is highly expressed in hematopoietic stem cells and is downregulated during lineage maturation. Gain of function mutations, loss of function mutations, and overexpression of GATA2 have been reported in acute myeloid leukemia. In previous studies, we and others showed that GATA2 overexpression at high levels, similar to that seen in hematopoietic stem cells, blocked differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells and progenitors. To better understand the effects of GATA2, we designed a Tamoxifen-inducible GATA2-estrogen receptor (ERT) vector. In the absence of Tamoxifen, small amounts of GATA2-ERT were still able to enter the nucleus in mouse bone marrow (BM) cells, providing us with a tool to test the effects of low-level GATA2 overexpression. We observed that this low-level GATA2 overexpression enhanced self-renewal of myeloid progenitors in vitro and resulted in immortalization of BM cells to myeloid cell lines. Continuous GATA2-ERT expression was required for the proliferation of these immortalized lines. Myeloid expansion and a block in T and B lineage differentiation were observed in mice transplanted with GATA2-ERT-expressing BM cells. Myeloid expansion occurred after the granulocyte monocyte progenitor stage, and lymphoid block was distal to the common lymphoid progenitor in transgenic mice. GATA2 appeared to induce growth via downstream activation of Nmyc and Hoxa9. Our results demonstrate that GATA2 overexpression at low level confers self-renewal capacity to myeloid progenitors and is relevant to myeloid leukemia development.
GATA-2 transcription factor deficiency has recently been described in patients with a propensity towards myeloid malignancy associated with other highly variable phenotypic features: chronic leukocytopenias (dendritic cell-, monocyto-, granulocyto-, lymphocytopenia), increased susceptibility to infections, lymphatic vasculature abnormalities, and sensorineural deafness. Patients often suffer from opportunistic respiratory infections; chronic pulmonary changes have been found in advanced disease.
We present a case of a 17-year-old previously healthy Caucasian male who was admitted to the hospital with fever, malaise, headache, cough and dyspnea. A chest X-ray revealed bilateral interstitial infiltrates and pneumonia was diagnosed. Despite prompt clinical improvement under antibiotic therapy, interstitial changes remained stable. A high resolution computer tomography showed severe diffuse parenchymal lung disease, while the patient's pulmonary function tests were normal and he was asymptomatic. Lung tissue biopsy revealed chronic reparative and resorptive reaction with organizing vasculitis. At the time of the initial presentation to the hospital, serological signs of acute infection with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) were present; EBV viremia with atypical serological response persisted during two-year follow up. No other infectious agents were found. Marked monocytopenia combined with B-cell lymphopenia led to a suspicion of GATA-2 deficiency. Diagnosis was confirmed by detection of the previously published heterozygous mutation in GATA2 (c.1081 C > T, p.R361C). The patient's brother and father were both carriers of the same genetic defect. The brother had no clinically relevant ailments despite leukocyte changes similar to the index patient. The father suffered from spondylarthritis, and apart from B-cell lymphopenia, no other changes within the leukocyte pool were seen.
We conclude that a diagnosis of GATA-2 deficiency should be considered in all patients with diffuse parenchymal lung disease presenting together with leukocytopenia, namely monocyto-, dendritic cell- and B-lymphopenia, irrespective of severity of the clinical phenotype. Genetic counseling and screening for GATA2 mutations within the patient's family should be provided as the phenotype is highly variable and carriers without apparent immunodeficiency are still in danger of developing myeloid malignancy. A prompt recognition of this rare condition helps to direct clinical treatment strategies and follow-up procedures.
Specific combinations of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) disease alleles, including FLT3 and TET2 mutations, confer distinct biologic features and adverse outcome. We generated mice with mutations in Tet2 and Flt3, which resulted in fully penetrant, lethal AML. Multipotent Tet2(-/-);Flt3(ITD) progenitors (LSK CD48(+)CD150(-)) propagate disease in secondary recipients and were refractory to standard AML chemotherapy and FLT3-targeted therapy. Flt3(ITD) mutations and Tet2 loss cooperatively remodeled DNA methylation and gene expression to an extent not seen with either mutant allele alone, including at the Gata2 locus. Re-expression of Gata2 induced differentiation in AML stem cells and attenuated leukemogenesis. TET2 and FLT3 mutations cooperatively induce AML, with a defined leukemia stem cell population characterized by site-specific changes in DNA methylation and gene expression.
The bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)/SMAD signaling pathway is a critical regulator of angiogenic sprouting and is involved in vascular development in the embryo. SMAD1 and SMAD5, the core mediators of BMP signaling, are vital for this activity, yet little is known about their transcriptional regulation in endothelial cells. Here, we have integrated multispecies sequence conservation, tissue-specific chromatin, in vitro reporter assay, and in vivo transgenic data to identify and validate Smad1+63 and the Smad5 promoter as tissue-specific cis-regulatory elements that are active in the developing endothelium. The activity of these elements in the endothelium was dependent on highly conserved ETS, GATA, and E-box motifs, and chromatin immunoprecipitation showed high levels of enrichment of FLI1, GATA2, and SCL at these sites in endothelial cell lines and E11 dorsal aortas in vivo. Knockdown of FLI1 and GATA2 but not SCL reduced the expression of SMAD1 and SMAD5 in endothelial cells in vitro. In contrast, CD31(+) cKit(-) endothelial cells harvested from embryonic day 9 (E9) aorta-gonad-mesonephros (AGM) regions of GATA2 null embryos showed reduced Smad1 but not Smad5 transcript levels. This is suggestive of a degree of in vivo selection where, in the case of reduced SMAD1 levels, endothelial cells with more robust SMAD5 expression have a selective advantage.
GATA2 plays a crucial role for the mast cell fate decision. We herein demonstrate that GATA2 is also required for the maintenance of the cellular identity in committed mast cells derived from mouse bone marrow (BMMCs). The deletion of the GATA2 DNA binding domain (GATA2ΔCF) in BMMCs resulted in a loss of the mast cell phenotype and an increase in the number of CD11b- and/or Ly6G/C-positive cells. These cells showed the ability to differentiate into macrophage- and neutrophil-like cells but not into eosinophils. Although the mRNA levels of basophil-specific genes were elevated, CD49b, a representative basophil marker, never appeared on these cells. GATA2 ablation led to a significant upregulation of C/EBPα, and forced expression of C/EBPα in wild-type BMMCs phenocopied the GATA2ΔCF cells. Interestingly, simultaneous deletion of the Gata2 and Cebpa genes in BMMCs restored the aberrant increases of CD11b and Ly6G/C while retaining the reduced c-Kit expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays indicated that GATA2 directly binds to the +37-kb region of the Cebpa gene and thereby inhibits the RUNX1 and PU.1 binding to the neighboring region. Upregulation of C/EBPα following the loss of GATA2 was not observed in cultured mast cells derived from peritoneal fluid, whereas the repression of c-Kit and other mast cell-specific genes were observed in these cells. Collectively, these results indicate that GATA2 maintains cellular identity by preventing Cebpa gene activation in a subpopulation of mast cells, whereas it plays a fundamental role as a positive regulator of mast cell-specific genes throughout development of this cell lineage.
Setd8 is the sole histone methyltransferase in mammals capable of monomethylating histone H4 lysine 20 (H4K20me1). Setd8 is expressed at significantly higher levels in erythroid cells than any other cell or tissue type, suggesting that Setd8 has an erythroid-cell-specific function. To test this hypothesis, stable Setd8 knockdown was established in extensively self-renewing erythroblasts (ESREs), a well-characterized, nontransformed model of erythroid maturation. Knockdown of Setd8 resulted in impaired erythroid maturation characterized by a delay in hemoglobin accumulation, larger mean cell area, persistent ckit expression, incomplete nuclear condensation, and lower rates of enucleation. Setd8 knockdown did not alter ESRE proliferation or viability or result in accumulation of DNA damage. Global gene expression analyses following Setd8 knockdown demonstrated that in erythroid cells, Setd8 functions primarily as a repressor. Most notably, Gata2 expression was significantly higher in knockdown cells than in control cells and Gata2 knockdown rescued some of the maturation impairments associated with Setd8 disruption. Setd8 occupies critical regulatory elements in the Gata2 locus, and knockdown of Setd8 resulted in loss of H4K20me1 and gain of H4 acetylation at the Gata2 1S promoter. These results suggest that Setd8 is an important regulator of erythroid maturation that works in part through repression of Gata2 expression.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infects nearly all humans and usually is asymptomatic, or in the case of adolescents and young adults, it can result in infectious mononucleosis. EBV-infected B cells are controlled primarily by NK cells, iNKT cells, CD4 T cells, and CD8 T cells. While mutations in proteins important for B cell function can affect EBV infection of these cells, these mutations do not result in severe EBV infection. Some genetic disorders affecting T and NK cell function result in failure to control EBV infection, but do not result in increased susceptibility to other virus infections. These include mutations in SH2D1A, BIRC4, ITK, CD27, MAGT1, CORO1A, and LRBA. Since EBV is the only virus that induces proliferation of B cells, the study of these diseases has helped to identify proteins critical for interactions of T and/or NK cells with B cells. Mutations in three genes associated with hemophagocytic lymphohistocytosis, PRF1, STXBP2, and UNC13D, can also predispose to severe chronic active EBV disease. Severe EBV infection can be associated with immunodeficiencies that also predispose to other viral infections and in some cases other bacterial and fungal infections. These include diseases due to mutations in PIK3CD, PIK3R1, CTPS1, STK4, GATA2, MCM4, FCGR3A, CARD11, ATM, and WAS. In addition, patients with severe combined immunodeficiency, which can be due to mutations in a number of different genes, are at high risk for various infections as well as EBV B cell lymphomas. Identification of proteins important for control of EBV may help to identify new targets for immunosuppressive therapies.
In mice, hematopoietic cells home to bone marrow from fetal liver prenatally. To elucidate mechanisms underlying homing, we performed immunohistochemistry with the hematopoietic cell marker c-Kit, and observed c-Kit(+) cells localized inside muscle surrounding bone after 14.5 days post coitum. Flow cytometric analysis showed that CD45(+) c-Kit(+) hematopoietic cells were more abundant in muscle than in bone marrow between 14.5 and 17.5 days post coitum, peaking at 16.5 days post coitum. CD45(+) c-Kit(+) cells in muscle at 16.5 days post coitum exhibited higher expression of Gata2, among several hematopoietic genes, than did fetal liver or bone marrow cells. Colony formation assays revealed that muscle hematopoietic cells possess hematopoietic progenitor activity. Furthermore, exo utero transplantation revealed that fetal liver hematopoietic progenitor cells home to muscle and then to BM. Our findings demonstrate that hematopoietic progenitor cell homing occurs earlier than previously reported and that hematopoietic progenitor cells reside in muscle tissue before bone marrow hematopoiesis occurs during mouse embryogenesis.
Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms in FTO intron 1 have been associated with obesity risk, leading to the hypothesis that FTO is the obesity-related gene. However, other studies have shown that the FTO gene is part of the regulatory domain of the neighboring IRX3 gene and that enhancers in FTO intron 1 regulate IRX3. While Irx3 activity was shown to be necessary in the hypothalamus for the metabolic function of Irx3 in mouse, no enhancers with hypothalamic activity have been demonstrated in the risk-associated region within FTO. In order to identify potential enhancers at the human FTO locus in vivo, we tested regulatory activity in FTO intron 1 using BAC transgenesis in zebrafish. A minimal gata2 promoter-GFP cassette was inserted 1.3 kb upstream of the obesity associated SNP rs9939609 in a human FTO BAC plasmid. In addition to the previously identified expression domains in notochord and kidney, human FTO BAC:GFP transgenic zebrafish larvae expressed GFP in the ventral posterior tuberculum, the posterior hypothalamus and the anterior brainstem, which are also expression domains of zebrafish irx3a. In contrast, an in-frame insertion of a GFP cassette at the FTO start codon resulted in weak ubiquitous GFP expression indicating that the promoter of FTO does likely not react to enhancers located in the obesity risk-associated region. genesis, 2015. © 2015 The Authors. genesis Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Human embryonic stem cells (ESCs) can form neuroectoderm (NE), providing a platform for in vitro dissection of NE formation. However, human ESCs can differentiate into all three germ layers. It thus is crucial to develop efficient methods for differentiation of human ESCs into NE cells. Both plating cell density and localized cell density (LCD) affect NE differentiation. Here, we developed a cell cluster-based NE differentiation method, in which both plating cell density and LCD are under control. Using our new method, high plating cell densities promote expression of PAX6, a NE marker protein. Two SMAD signaling blockers, SB431542 and NOGGIN, downregulate OCT4 and upregulate PAX6, while does not affect mRNA expression of GATA2 after 5 d of differentiation. Moreover, IB analysis showed a time-dependent upregulation of PAX6 and beta-III-tubulin together with a downregulation of OCT4 during the neural differentiation. Coexpression of both TH and beta-III-tubulin in the H9-derived cells was also detected, proving the NE cells have an ability to differentiate into one of the specific neurons. Together, we established a simple method for generating NE cells from H9 cells, which might contribute to develop high efficient method for neural differentiation.
Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a rare and aggressive cutaneous malignancy associated with a poor prognosis. Patients with MCC present with variably sized lesions that can range from red/pink to blue/violaceous and are often misdiagnosed. Lesions typically grow rapidly over a period of 3 months and are located on sun-exposed areas(1) . MCC has been associated with Merkel Cell Polyomavirus (MCPyV) infection with clonal integration of MCPyV sequences originally detected in 80% of MCC tumors(2) . Other risk factors for MCC include UV exposure, white race, old age, and acquired immunodeficiency such as HIV/AIDS, organ transplantation, and lymphoproliferative disorders(3) . These associations suggest that impaired immune surveillance of MCPyV infected tissues may play a role in carcinogenesis and disease progression. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Hematopoiesis is a progressive process collectively controlled by an elaborate network of transcription factors (TFs). Among these TFs, GATA2 has been implicated to be critical for regulating multiple steps of hematopoiesis in mouse models. However, whether similar function of GATA2 is conserved in human hematopoiesis, especially during early embryonic development stage, is largely unknown.
To examine the role of GATA2 in human background, we generated homozygous GATA2 knockout human embryonic stem cells (GATA2 (-/-) hESCs) and analyzed their blood differentiation potential. Our results demonstrated that GATA2 (-/-) hESCs displayed attenuated generation of CD34(+)CD43(+) hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs), due to the impairment of endothelial to hematopoietic transition (EHT). Interestingly, GATA2 (-/-) hESCs retained the potential to generate erythroblasts and macrophages, but never granulocytes. We further identified that SPI1 downregulation was partially responsible for the defects of GATA2 (-/-) hESCs in generation of CD34(+)CD43(+) HPCs and granulocytes. Furthermore, we found that GATA2 (-/-) hESCs restored the granulocyte potential in the presence of Notch signaling.
Our findings revealed the essential roles of GATA2 in EHT and granulocyte development through regulating SPI1, and uncovered a role of Notch signaling in granulocyte generation during hematopoiesis modeled by human ESCs.
The prognostic relevance of epigenetic modifying genes (DNMT3A, TET2, and IDH1/2) in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has been investigated extensively. However, the prognostic implications of these mutations after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) have not been evaluated comprehensively in patients with normal-karyotype (NK)-AML. A total of 115 patients who received allogeneic HCT for NK-AML were retrospectively evaluated for the FLT3-ITD, NPM1, CEBPA, DNMT3A, TET2, IDH1/2, WT1, NRAS, ASXL2, FAT1, DNAH11, and GATA2 mutations in diagnostic samples and analyzed for long-term outcomes after allogeneic HCT. The prevalence rates for the mutations were as follows: FLT3-ITD positivity (FLT3-ITD(pos)) (32.2%), NPM1 mutation (43.5%), CEBPA mutation (double) (24.6%), DNMT3A mutation (DNMT3A(mut)) (31.3%), DNMT3A R882(mut) (18.3%), TET2 mutation (8.7%), and IDH1/2 mutation (16.5%). The 5-year overall survival (OS) and event-free survival (EFS) rates were 57.3% and 58.1%, respectively. A multivariate analysis revealed that FLT3-ITD(pos) (hazard ratio, [HR], 2.23; P = .006) and DNMT3A R882(mut) (HR, 2.74; P = .002) were unfavorable prognostic factors for OS. In addition, both mutations were significant risk factors for EFS and relapse. People with DNMT3A R882(mut) accompanied by FLT3-ITD(pos) had worse OS and EFS, and higher relapse rates than those with the other mutations, which were confirmed in a propensity score 1:2 matching analysis. These results suggest that DNMT3A R882(mut), particularly when accompanied by FLT3-ITD(pos), is a significant prognostic factor for inferior transplantation survival outcome by increasing relapse risk, even after allogeneic HCT.
Hemodynamic forces regulate many aspects of blood vessel disease and development, including susceptibility to atherosclerosis and remodeling of primary blood vessels into a mature vascular network. Vessels of the lymphatic circulatory system are also subjected to fluid flow-associated forces, but the molecular and cellular mechanisms by which these forces regulate the formation and maintenance of lymphatic vessels remain largely uncharacterized. This issue of the JCI includes two articles that begin to address how fluid flow influences lymphatic vessel development and function. Sweet et al. demonstrate that lymph flow is essential for the remodeling of primary lymphatic vessels, for ensuring the proper distribution of smooth muscle cells (SMCs), and for the development and maturation of lymphatic valves. Kazenwadel et al. show that flow-induced lymphatic valve development is initiated by the upregulation of GATA2, which has been linked to lymphedema in patients with Emberger syndrome. Together, these observations and future studies inspired by these results have potential to lead to the development of strategies for the treatment of lymphatic disorders.
Changes in cell fate and identity are essential for endothelial-to-haematopoietic transition (EHT), an embryonic process that generates the first adult populations of haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) from hemogenic endothelial cells. Dissecting EHT regulation is a critical step towards the production of in vitro derived HSCs. Yet, we do not know how distinct endothelial and haematopoietic fates are parsed during the transition. Here we show that genes required for arterial identity function later to repress haematopoietic fate. Tissue-specific, temporally controlled, genetic loss of arterial genes (Sox17 and Notch1) during EHT results in increased production of haematopoietic cells due to loss of Sox17-mediated repression of haematopoietic transcription factors (Runx1 and Gata2). However, the increase in EHT can be abrogated by increased Notch signalling. These findings demonstrate that the endothelial haematopoietic fate switch is actively repressed in a population of endothelial cells, and that derepression of these programs augments haematopoietic output.
Chromosome 7 deletions are highly prevalent in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and likely contribute to aberrant growth through haploinsufficiency. We generated mice with a heterozygous germ line deletion of a 2-Mb interval of chromosome band 5A3 syntenic to a commonly deleted segment of human 7q22 and show that mutant hematopoietic cells exhibit cardinal features of MDS. Specifically, the long-term hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) compartment is expanded in 5A3(+/del) mice, and the distribution of myeloid progenitors is altered. 5A3(+/del) HSCs are defective for lymphoid repopulating potential and show a myeloid lineage output bias. These cell autonomous abnormalities are exacerbated by physiologic aging and upon serial transplantation. The 5A3 deletion partially rescues defective repopulation in Gata2 mutant mice. 5A3(+/del) hematopoietic cells exhibit decreased expression of oxidative phosphorylation genes, increased levels of reactive oxygen species, and perturbed oxygen consumption. These studies provide the first functional data linking 7q22 deletions to MDS pathogenesis.
In Escherichia coli, chromosome replication is initiated from oriC by the DnaA initiator protein associated with ATP. Three non-coding regions contribute to the activity of DnaA. The datA locus is instrumental in conversion of DnaA(ATP) to DnaA(ADP) (datA dependent DnaA(ATP) hydrolysis) whereas DnaA rejuvenation sequences 1 and 2 (DARS1 and DARS2) reactivate DnaA(ADP) to DnaA(ATP). The structural organization of oriC, datA, DARS1, and DARS2 were found conserved among 59 fully sequenced E. coli genomes, with differences primarily in the non-functional spacer regions between key protein binding sites. The relative distances from oriC to datA, DARS1, and DARS2, respectively, was also conserved despite of large variations in genome size, suggesting that the gene dosage of either region is important for bacterial growth. Yet all three regions could be deleted alone or in combination without loss of viability. Competition experiments during balanced growth in rich medium and during mouse colonization indicated roles of datA, DARS1, and DARS2 for bacterial fitness although the relative contribution of each region differed between growth conditions. We suggest that this fitness advantage has contributed to conservation of both sequence and chromosomal location for datA, DARS1, and DARS2.
Triggers and regulatory pathways that effectively link human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) major immediate-early (MIE) latent-lytic switch activation with progeny production are incompletely understood. In the quiescently infected human NTera2 cell model of primitive neural stem cells, we found that co-stimulation with vasoactive intestinal peptide (V) and phorbol ester (P) synergistically activated viral infection, but this effect waned over time. Coupling retinoic acid (R), an inducer of neuronal differentiation, to VP pulse-stimulation attenuated the decline in viral activity and promoted spread of the active infection through concentric layers of neighboring cells as cellular differentiation progressed. R stimulation alone was unable to activate the infection. The MIE enhancer cis-regulatory mechanisms responsible for this result were characterized by a strategy of combinatorial mutagenesis of five cis-acting element types (retinoic acid receptor binding elements (RARE), cAMP response elements (CRE), NF-κB binding sites (kB), serum response element, and ETS/ELK-1 binding site) and multiple methods of assessment. We found that the CRE and kB combination sets pre-induction enhancer tone, is the major initiator and amplifier of RVP-induced MIE gene expression, and cooperates with RARE during cellular differentiation to enhance viral spread. In pre-differentiated NTera2, we also found that the CRE-kB combination functions as initiator and amplifier of unstimulated HCMV MIE gene expression and cooperatively interacts with RARE to enhance viral spread. We conclude that RVP-stimulated signaling cascades and cellular differentiation operate through the enhancer CRE-kB-RARE core in strengthening induction of HCMV MIE gene expression in linkage with viral propagation.
Cytomegalovirus-seropositive persons commonly lack detectable levels of cytomegalovirus replication, even when profoundly immunocompromised. In a human NTera2 cell model of primitive neural stem cells carrying resting cytomegalovirus genomes, we show that co-stimulation of protein kinase A and C-delta signaling cascades in conjunction with retinoic acid-induced neuronal differentiation brings about progeny virus propagation. Iterated DNA binding sites for retinoic acid receptor, CREB, and NF-κB family members in the cytomegalovirus major enhancer are at the crux in the pathway to HCMV activation. The stimulated CREB and NF-κB binding site combination vigorously initiates and amplifies the active cytomegalovirus infection and cooperates with activated retinoic acid receptor binding sites to further promote viral proliferation and spread between differentiated cells. These results support a paradigm in which a specific combination of stimuli coupled with cellular differentiation satisfies a core cis-activating code that unlocks enhancer silence to re-power the cycle of cytomegalovirus propagation.
DnaAcos, a mutant of the initiator DnaA, causes overinitiation of chromosome replication in Escherichia coli, resulting in inhibition of cell division. CedA was found to be a multi-copy suppressor which represses the dnaAcos inhibition of cell division. However, functional mechanism of CedA remains elusive except for previously indicated possibilities in binding to DNA and RNA polymerase. In this study, we searched for the specific sites of CedA in binding of DNA and RNA polymerase and in repression of cell division inhibition. First, DNA sequence to which CedA preferentially binds was determined. Next, the several residues and β4 region in CedA C-terminal domain was suggested to specifically interact with the DNA. Moreover, we found that the flexible N-terminal region was required for tight binding to longer DNA as well as interaction with RNA polymerase. Based on these results, several cedA mutants were examined in ability for repressing dnaAcos cell division inhibition. We found that the N-terminal region was dispensable and that Glu32 in the C-terminal domain was required for the repression. These results suggest that CedA has multiple roles and residues with different functions are positioned in the two regions.
The bacterial chaperone high-temperature protein G (HtpG), a member of the Hsp90 protein family, is involved in the protection of cells against a variety of environmental stresses. The ability of HtpG to form complexes with other bacterial proteins, especially those involved in fundamental functions, is indicative of its cellular role. An interaction between HtpG and DnaA, the main initiator of DNA replication, was studied both in vivo, using a bacterial two-hybrid system, and in vitro with a modified pull-down assay and by chemical cross-linking. In vivo, this interaction was demonstrated only when htpG was expressed from a high copy number plasmid. Both in vitro assays confirmed HtpG-DnaA interactions.
Viral metagenomics has recently revealed the ubiquitous and diverse nature of single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) viruses that encode a conserved replication initiator protein (Rep) in the marine environment. Although eukaryotic circular Rep-encoding ssDNA (CRESS-DNA) viruses were originally thought to only infect plants and vertebrates, recent studies have identified these viruses in a number of invertebrates. To further explore CRESS-DNA viruses in the marine environment, this study surveyed CRESS-DNA viruses in various marine invertebrate species. A total of 27 novel CRESS-DNA genomes, with Reps that share less than 60.1% identity with previously reported viruses, were recovered from 21 invertebrate species, mainly crustaceans. Phylogenetic analysis based on the Rep revealed a novel clade of CRESS-DNA viruses that included approximately one third of the marine invertebrate associated viruses identified here and whose members may represent a novel family. Investigation of putative capsid proteins (Cap) encoded within the eukaryotic CRESS-DNA viral genomes from this study and those in GenBank demonstrated conserved patterns of predicted intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs), which can be used to complement similarity-based searches to identify divergent structural proteins within novel genomes. Overall, this study expands our knowledge of CRESS-DNA viruses associated with invertebrates and explores a new tool to evaluate divergent structural proteins encoded by these viruses.
Rolling-circle replication of streptococcal plasmid pMV158 is controlled by the concerted action of two trans-acting elements, namely transcriptional repressor CopG and antisense RNAII, which inhibit expression of the repB gene encoding the replication initiator protein. The pMV158-encoded antisense RNAII exerts its activity of replication control by inhibiting translation of the essential repB gene. RNAII is the smallest and simplest among the characterized antisense RNAs involved in control of plasmid replication. Structure analysis of RNAII revealed that it folds into an 8-bp-long stem containing a 1-nt bulge and closed by a 6-nt apical loop. This hairpin is flanked by a 17-nt-long single-stranded 5'-tail and an 8-nt-long 3'-terminal U-rich stretch. Here, the 3' and 5' regions of the 5'-tail of RNAII are shown to play a critical role in the binding to the target mRNA and in the inhibition of repB translation, respectively. In contrast, the apical loop of the single hairpin of RNAII plays a rather secondary role and the upper stem region hardly contributes to the binding or inhibition processes. The entire 5'-tail is required for efficient inhibition of repB translation, though only the 8-nt-long region adjacent to the hairpin seems to be essential for rapid binding to the mRNA. These results show that a "kissing" interaction involving base-pairing between complementary hairpin loops in RNAII and mRNA is not critical for efficient RNA/RNA binding or repB translation inhibition. A singular binding mechanism is envisaged whereby initial pairing between complementary single-stranded regions in the antisense and sense RNAs progresses upwards into the corresponding hairpin stems to form the intermolecular duplex.
Plasmids are DNA entities that undergo controlled replication independent of the chromosomal DNA, a crucial step that guarantees the prevalence of the plasmid in its host. DNA replication has to cope with the incapacity of the DNA polymerases to start de novo DNA synthesis, and different replication mechanisms offer diverse solutions to this problem. Rolling-circle replication (RCR) is a mechanism adopted by certain plasmids, among other genetic elements, that represents one of the simplest initiation strategies, that is, the nicking by a replication initiator protein on one parental strand to generate the primer for leading-strand initiation and a single priming site for lagging-strand synthesis. All RCR plasmid genomes consist of a number of basic elements: leading strand initiation and control, lagging strand origin, phenotypic determinants, and mobilization, generally in that order of frequency. RCR has been mainly characterized in Gram-positive bacterial plasmids, although it has also been described in Gram-negative bacterial or archaeal plasmids. Here we aim to provide an overview of the RCR plasmids' lifestyle, with emphasis on their characteristic traits, promiscuity, stability, utility as vectors, etc. While RCR is one of the best-characterized plasmid replication mechanisms, there are still many questions left unanswered, which will be pointed out along the way in this review.
Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARPs) play diverse roles in various cellular processes that involve DNA repair and programmed cell death. Amongst these polymerases is PARP-1 which is the key DNA damage-sensing enzyme that acts as an initiator for the DNA repair mechanism. Dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH) is an enzyme in the pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway which is an important target for anti-hyperproliferative and anti-inflammatory drug design. Since these enzymes share a common role in the DNA replication and repair mechanisms, it may be beneficial to target both PARP-1 and DHODH in attempts to design new anti-cancer agents. Benzimidazole derivatives have shown a wide variety of pharmacological activities including PARP and DHODH inhibition. We hereby report the design, synthesis and bioactivities of a series of benzimidazole derivatives as inhibitors of both the PARP-1 and DHODH enzymes.
The bacterium Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis (Cp) causes caseous lymphadenitis (CLA), mastitis, ulcerative lymphangitis, and oedema in a number of hosts, comprising ruminants, thereby intimidating economic and dairy industries worldwide. So far there is no effective drug or vaccine available against Cp. Previously, a pan-genomic analysis was performed for both biovar equi and biovar ovis and a Pathogenicity Islands (PAIS) analysis within the strains highlighted a large set of proteins that could be relevant therapeutic targets for controlling the onset of CLA. In the present work, a structural druggability analysis pipeline was accomplished along 15 previously sequenced Cp strains from both biovar equi and biovar ovis.
We computed the whole modelome of a reference strain Cp1002 (NCBI Accession: NC_017300.1) and then the homology models of proteins, of 14 different Cp strains, with high identity (≥ 85%) to the reference strain were also done. Druggability score of all proteins pockets was calculated and only those targets that have a highly druggable (HD) pocket in all strains were kept, a set of 58 proteins. Finally, this information was merged with the previous PAIS analysis giving two possible highly relevant targets to conduct drug discovery projects. Also, off-targeting information against host organisms, including Homo sapiens and a further analysis for protein essentiality provided a final set of 31 druggable, essential and non-host homologous targets, tabulated in table S4, additional file 1. Out of 31 globally druggable targets, 9 targets have already been reported in other pathogenic microorganisms, 3 of them (3-isopropylmalate dehydratase small subunit, 50S ribosomal protein L30, Chromosomal replication initiator protein DnaA) in C. pseudotuberculosis.
Overall we provide valuable information of possible targets against C. pseudotuberculosis where some of these targets have already been reported in other microorganisms for drug discovery projects, also discarding targets that might be physiologically relevant but are not amenable for drug binding. We propose that the constructed in silico dataset might serve as a guidance for the scientific community to have a better understanding while selecting putative therapeutic protein candidates as druggable ones as effective measures against C. pseudotuberculosis.
Viruses with small circular ssDNA genomes encoding a replication initiator protein can infect a wide range of eukaryotic organisms ranging from mammals to fungi. The genomes of two such viruses, a cyclovirus (CyCV-SL) and gemycircularvirus (GemyCV-SL) were detected by deep sequencing of the cerebrospinal fluids of Sri Lankan patients with unexplained encephalitis. One and three out of 201 CSF samples (1.5%) from unexplained encephalitis patients tested by PCR were CyCV-SL and GemyCV-SL DNA positive respectively. Nucleotide similarity searches of pre-existing metagenomics datasets revealed closely related genomes in feces from unexplained cases of diarrhea from Nicaragua and Brazil and in untreated sewage from Nepal. Whether the tropism of the cyclovirus and gemycircularvirus reported here include humans or other cellular sources in or on the human body remains to be determined.
Most available structures of amyloids correspond to peptide fragments that self-assemble in extended cross β sheets. However, structures in which a whole protein domain acts as building block of an amyloid fiber are scarce, in spite of their relevance to understand amyloidogenesis. Here, we use electron microscopy (EM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM) to analyze the structure of amyloid filaments assembled by RepA-WH1, a winged-helix domain from a DNA replication initiator in bacterial plasmids. RepA-WH1 functions as a cytotoxic bacterial prionoid that recapitulates features of mammalian amyloid proteinopathies. RepA are dimers that monomerize at the origin to initiate replication, and we find that RepA-WH1 reproduces this transition to form amyloids. RepA-WH1 assembles double helical filaments by lateral association of a single-stranded precursor built by monomers. Double filaments then associate in mature fibers. The intracellular and cytotoxic RepA-WH1 aggregates might reproduce the hierarchical assembly of human amyloidogenic proteins.
Duplex DNA is generally unwound by protein oligomers prior to replication. The Rep protein of plasmid ColE2-P9 (34 kDa) is an essential initiator for plasmid DNA replication. This protein binds the replication origin (Ori) in a sequence-specific manner as a monomer and unwinds DNA. Here we present the crystal structure of the DNA-binding domain of Rep (E2Rep-DBD) in complex with Ori DNA. The structure unveils the basis for Ori-specific recognition by the E2Rep-DBD and also reveals that it unwinds DNA by the concerted actions of its three contiguous structural modules. The structure also shows that the functionally unknown PriCT domain, which forms a compact module, plays a central role in DNA unwinding. The conservation of the PriCT domain in the C termini of some archaeo-eukaryotic primases indicates that it probably plays a similar role in these proteins. Thus, this is the first report providing the structural basis for the functional importance of the conserved PriCT domain and also reveals a novel mechanism for DNA unwinding by a single protein.
Members of the Parvoviridae family all encode a non-structural protein 1 (NS1) that directs replication of single-stranded viral DNA, packages viral DNA into capsid, and serves as a potent transcriptional activator. Here we report the X-ray structure of the minute virus of mice (MVM) NS1 N-terminal domain at 1.45Å resolution, showing that sites for dsDNA binding, ssDNA binding and cleavage, nuclear localization, and other functions are integrated on a canonical fold of the histidine-hydrophobic-histidine superfamily of nucleases, including elements specific for this Protoparvovirus but distinct from its Bocaparvovirus or Dependoparvovirus orthologs. High resolution structural analysis reveals a nickase active site with an architecture that allows highly versatile metal ligand binding. The structures support a unified mechanism of replication origin recognition for homotelomeric and heterotelomeric parvoviruses, mediated by a basic-residue-rich hairpin and an adjacent helix in the initiator proteins and by tandem tetranucleotide motifs in the replication origins.
DNA replication initiation is mediated across all domains of life by initiator proteins oligomerizing at replication origins. Recently, it was shown that initiators can directly bind single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) and thus might enhance origin melting. In this study, we used single-molecule fluorescence assays to probe the ssDNA binding mechanism of the replication initiator DnaA. Our experiments revealed that DnaA forms a dynamic filament on ssDNA in 3' to 5' directionality in the presence of ATP and analogs. After nucleation with a three-monomer seed, monomers dynamically assemble and disassemble one monomer at a time at the 5' end, each monomer binding three nucleotides of ssDNA. The addition of adjacent double-stranded DnaA binding sites stabilized the DnaA filament on ssDNA. Our results extend the current models of origin melting via DnaA ssDNA interaction.
Metagenomic analysis of fecal samples collected from diarrheal swine detected sequences encoding a replication initiator protein (Rep). The genomes of ten novel single-stranded DNA viruses were determined, and they exhibited a similar genome organization. The two putative open reading frames (ORFs) encoding Rep and the capsid protein are bidirectionally transcribed and separated by two intergenic regions. Stem-loop structure(s) typical of genomes that undergo the rolling-circle DNA replication mechanism were observed. Phylogenetically, these ten genomes are in a monophyletic clade with the previously described porcine stool-associated virus (PoSCV) but are divergent enough to be further classified into to six distinct virus clades.
DNA phosphorylation catalyzed by polynucleotide kinase (PNK) is an indispensable process in the repair, replication, and recombination of nucleic acids. Here, an enzyme-assisted amplification strategy was developed for the ultrasensitive monitoring activity and inhibition of T4 PNK. A hairpin oligonucleotide (hpDNA) was designed as a probe whose stem can be degraded from the 5' to 3' direction by lambda exonuclease (λ exo) when its 5' end is phosphorylated by PNK. So, the 3' stem and loop part of hpDNA was released as an initiator strand to open a molecular beacon (MB) that was designed as a fluorescence reporter, leading to a fluorescence restoration. Then, the initiator strand was released again by the nicking endonuclease (Nt.BbvCI) to hybridize with another MB, resulting in a cyclic reaction and accumulation of fluorescence signal. Based on enzyme-assisted amplification, PNK activity can be sensitively and rapidly detected with a detection limit of 1.0×10(-4)U/ml, which is superior to those of most existing approaches. Furthermore, the application of the proposed strategy for screening PNK inhibitors also demonstrated satisfactory results. Therefore, it provided a promising platform for monitoring activity and inhibition of PNK as well as for studying the activity of other nucleases.
Caspase-8 (CASP8) is an essential initiator of apoptosis and is associated with many diseases in humans including esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. CASP8 produces a variety of transcripts, which might perform distinct functions. However, the cis and trans transcriptional determinants that control CASP8 expression remain poorly defined. Using a series of luciferase reporter assays, we identified a novel secondary promoter of CASP8 within chr2: 202,122,236 to 202,123,227 and 25 kb downstream of the previously described CASP8 promoter. ENCODE ChIP-seq data for this novel promoter region revealed several epigenetic features, including high levels of histone H3 lysine 27 acetylation and lysine 4 methylation, as well as low levels of CpG island methylation. We developed a mass spectrometry based strategy to identify transcription factors that contribute to the function of the secondary promoter. We found that the transcription activator protein PURα is specifically involved in the transcriptional activation of the secondary promoter and may exert its function by forming a complex with E2F-1 and RNA polymerase II. PURα can bind to both DNA and RNA, and functions in the initiation of DNA replication, regulation of transcription. We observed that knockdown of PURα expression decreased the transcriptional activity of the secondary promoter and mRNA expression of CASP8 isoform G. Although the physiologic roles of this secondary promoter remain unclear, our data may help explain the complexity of CASP8 transcription and suggest that the various caspase 8 isoforms may have distinct regulations and functions.
Replication initiator 1 (Repin1) is a zinc finger protein highly expressed in liver and adipose tissue and maps within a quantitative trait locus (QTL) for body weight and triglyceride (TG) levels in the rat. The QTL has further been supported as a susceptibility locus for dyslipidemia and related metabolic disorders in congenic and subcongenic rat strains. Here, we elucidated the role of Repin1 in lipid metabolism in vivo. We generated a liver-specific Repin1 knockout mouse (LRep1(-/-)) and systematically characterized the consequences of Repin1 deficiency in the liver on body weight, glucose and lipid metabolism, liver lipid patterns, and protein/mRNA expression. Hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp studies revealed significantly improved whole-body insulin sensitivity in LRep1(-/-) mice, which may be due to significantly lower TG content in the liver. Repin1 deficiency causes significant changes in potential downstream target molecules including Cd36, Pparγ, Glut2 protein, Akt phosphorylation, and lipocalin2, Vamp4, and Snap23 mRNA expression. Mice with hepatic deletion of Repin1 display secondary changes in adipose tissue function, which may be mediated by altered hepatic expression of lipocalin2 or chemerin. Our findings indicate that Repin1 plays a role in insulin sensitivity and lipid metabolism by regulating key genes of glucose and lipid metabolism.
Fitness cost is the measure of the metabolic burden of unneeded gene expression. It is defined as the lag in bacterial cells growth harboring unneeded genes relative to unburdened cells. Separate cells can concurrently adapt to the burden, demonstrating a decrease in or even a disappearance of the lag. The precise mechanisms of this adaptation are not clearly understood. One possibility is that an increased amount of free ribosomes "absorb" the unnecessary burden. In this work, the mechanism by which an increased concentration of ribosomes could result in faster growth and mask the unneeded gene expression burden is discussed. The initiation time of chromosome replication by the initiator protein DnaA, for which the accumulation speed depends on the ribosomes amount, is taken into account.
To develop and test incident drug user designs for assessing cost savings from statin use in diabetics.
Random 5 percent sample of Medicare beneficiaries, 2006-2008.
Seven-step incident user design to assess impact of statin initiation on subsequent Medicare spending: (1) unadjusted pre/post initiation test; (2) unadjusted difference-in-difference (DID) with comparison series; (3) adjusted DID; (4) propensity score (PS)-matched DID with static and dynamic baseline covariates; (5) PS-matched DID by drug adherence strata; (6) PS-matched DID for high adherers controlling for healthy adherer bias; and (7) replication for ACE-inhibitor/ARB initiators.
Subjects with prevalent diabetes and no statin use (January-June 2006) and statin initiation (July 2006-January 2008) compared to nonusers with a random "potential-initiation" month. Monthly Medicare spending tracked 24 months pre- and post-initiation.
Statistically significant savings in Medicare spending were observed beginning 7 months post-initiation for statins and 13 months post-initiation for ACEIs/ARBs. However, these savings were only observed for adherent patients in steps 5 and 6.
Drug initiator designs are more robust to confounding than prevalent user designs in assessing cost-offsets from drug use but still require other adjustments and sensitivity analysis to ensure proper inference.
The persistent effects of animal fat consumption during pregnancy and nursing on the programming of breast cancer risk among female offspring were studied here. We have previously found that female offspring of rat dams that consumed a lard-based high-fat (HF) diet (60% fat-derived energy) during pregnancy, or during pregnancy and lactation, were at a reduced risk of developing mammary cancer. To better understand the unexpected protective effects of early life lard exposure, we have applied lipidomics and nutrigenomics approaches to investigate the fatty acid profile and global gene expression patterns in the mammary tissue of the female offspring. Consumption of this HF diet during gestation had few effects on the mammary tissue fatty acids profile of young adult offspring, while exposure from gestation throughout nursing promoted significant alterations in the fatty acids profile. Major differences were related to decreases in saturated fatty acids (SFA) and increases in omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) and conjugated linolenic acid (CLA) concentrations. In addition several differences in gene expression patterns by microarray analysis between the control and in utero or in utero and during lactation HF exposed offspring were identified. Differential dependency network (DDN) analysis indicated that many of the genes exhibited unique connections to other genes only in the HF offspring. These unique connections included Hrh1-Ythdf1 and Repin1-Elavl2 in the in utero HF offspring, and Rnf213-Htr3b and Klf5-Chrna4 in the in utero and lactation HF offspring, compared with the control offspring. We conclude that an exposure to a lard-based HF diet during early life changes the fatty acid profile and transcriptional network in mammary gland in young adult rats, and these changes appear to be consistent with reduced mammary cancer risk observed in our previous study.
Cerebral palsy (CP) is a heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorder associated with intellectual disability in one-third of cases. Recent findings support Mendelian inheritance in subgroups of patients with the disease. The purpose of this study was to identify a novel genetic cause of paraplegic CP with intellectual disability in a consanguineous Pakistani family.
We performed whole-exome sequencing (WES) in two brothers with CP and intellectual disability. Analysis of AP4M1 mRNA was performed using quantitative real-time PCR on total RNA from cultured fibroblasts. The brothers were investigated clinically and by MRI.
We identified a novel homozygous AP4M1 mutation c.194_195delAT, p.Y65Ffs*50 in the affected brothers. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed markedly reduced AP4M1 mRNA levels suggesting partial non-sense mediated mRNA decay. Several clinical and MRI features were consistent with AP-4 complex deficiency. However, in contrast to previously reported cases with AP4M1 mutations our patients show an aggressive behavior and a relatively late onset of disease.
This study shows an AP4M1 mutation associated with aggressive behavior in addition to mild dysmorphic features, intellectual disability, spastic paraparesis and reduced head circumference. Our findings expand the clinical spectrum associated with AP-4 complex deficiency and the study illustrates the importance of MRI and WES in the diagnosis of patients with CP and intellectual disability.
The molecular regulation of growth of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has not been fully clarified. In NSCLC, we detected significantly higher levels of activating protein-4 (AP4), significantly lower levels of p21, and significantly lower levels of phosphorylated SMAD2 as an indicator of activated transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) receptor signaling, compared to the adjacent normal lung tissue. Moreover, a strong negative correlation was detected between AP4 and p21 levels. Since p21 is a potent cell-cycle inhibitor, we were thus promoted to examine the relationships among AP4, TGFβ receptor signaling, and cell growth in NSCLC. Using a human NSCLC cell line HepG2 cells, we found that activation of TGFβ receptor signaling increased p21 levels through phosphorylation of SMAD2. Moreover, AP4 inhibited phosphorylation of SMAD2 to contradict the effect of activated TGFβ receptor signaling on cell growth inhibition in NSCLC. Furthermore, binding of TGFβ1 to its receptor also directly increased AP4 transcription, which appeared to negatively control the levels of activated TGFβ receptor signaling. Taken together, our results suggest that AP4 may inhibit the phosphorylation of SMAD2, which is induced by receptor binding with TGFβ1, to abolish the inhibitory effect of activated TGFβ receptor signaling on cell growth in NSCLC. Our study thus highlights AP4 as a novel therapeutic target for NSCLC.
AP4 represents a c-MYC-inducible bHLH-LZ transcription factor, which displays elevated expression in many types of tumors. We found that serum-starved AP4-deficient mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEFs) were unable to resume proliferation and showed a delayed S-phase entry after restimulation. Furthermore, they accumulated as tetraploid cells due to a cytokinesis defect. In addition, AP4 was required for c-MYC-induced cell cycle re-entry. AP4-deficient MEFs displayed decreased expression of CDK2 (cyclin-dependent kinase 2), which we characterized as a conserved and direct AP4 target. Activation of an AP4 estrogen receptor fusion protein (AP4-ER) enhanced proliferation of human diploid fibroblasts in a CDK2-dependent manner. However, in contrast to c-MYC-ER, AP4-ER activation was not sufficient to induce cell cycle re-entry or apoptosis in serum-starved MEFs. AP4-deficiency was accompanied by increased spontaneous and c-MYC-induced DNA damage in MEFs. Furthermore, c-MYC-induced apoptosis was decreased in AP4-deficient MEFs, suggesting that induction of apoptosis by c-MYC is linked to its ability to activate AP4 and thereby cell cycle progression. Taken together, these results indicate that AP4 is a central mediator and coordinator of cell cycle progression in response to mitogenic signals and c-MYC activation. Therefore, inhibition of AP4 function may represent a therapeutic approach to block tumor cell proliferation.
The molecular regulation of growth of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is yet to be fully clarified. Here we found a significantly higher ratio of phosphorylated β-catenin (phos-β-cat) to β-catenin (β-cat) as an indicator of an activated Wnt signaling, with significantly higher levels of c-myc and transcription factor activating protein-4 (AP-4) and a significantly lower level of p21 in the resected HCC, compared to the paired adjacent healthy hepatic tissue from the patients. Moreover, strong correlations were detected between phos-β-cat/β-cat ratio and c-myc level, between c-myc and AP-4 levels, and between AP-4 and p21 levels. These data support the presence of a Wnt/c-myc/AP-4/p21 regulation cascade in HCC as has been reported in colorectal cancer. To prove it, we overexpressed c-myc in two HCC lines, which significantly increased AP-4 level, inhibited p21 level, and then increased cell growth. Meanwhile, c-myc inhibition in these two HCC lines significantly decreased AP-4 level, increased p21 level, and then decreased cell growth. Moreover, AP-4 inhibition in c-myc-overexpressing HCC lines abolished the inhibitory effect on p21 and abolished the increase in cell growth. In line with these findings, overexpression of AP-4 in these two HCC lines significantly decreased p21 level, and then increased cell growth, while AP-4 inhibition significantly increased p21 level, and then decreased cell growth. Our results on HCC are thus consistent with the model detected in colorectal carcinoma, suggesting that Wnt signaling activated c-myc may increase HCC growth through direct inhibitory effect of AP-4 on p21. Our study thus highlights AP-4 as a novel therapeutic target for HCC.
High glucose (HG) has been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction. And one potential mechanism underlining the dysfunction is the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of renal tubular epithelial cells. Present study showed that EMT was induced in the HG-treated renal tubular epithelial cells by promoting the expression of mesenchymal phenotype molecules, such as α-SMA and collagen I, and down-regulating the expression of epithelial phenotype molecule E-cadherin. Moreover, we have identified the down-regulation of miR-15a which was accompanied with the HG-induced EMT. And the miR-15a overexpression inhibited the α-SMA, collagen I expression, and the promotion of E-cadherin expression by targeting and down-regulating AP4 which was also significantly promoted by the HG in the renal tubular epithelial cells. Thus, this study revealed that the weakening regulation on the AP4 expression by miR-15a might contribute to the HG-induced EMT in the renal tubular epithelial cells.
The basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor activating enhancer‑binding protein (AP)-4 has been found to be involved in tumor biology. However, the role of AP-4 in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has yet to be elucidated. The present study aimed to investigate the role of AP-4 expression in NSCLC. AP-4 expression as analyzed using quantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blot analyses of 42 fresh NSCLC samples and matched adjacent noncancerous tissues. Immunohistochemistry was performed to assess the clinical significance of AP-4 expression in tumor tissues of NSCLC patients (n=240) and matched adjacent noncancerous tissues. The correlation between AP-4 expression, clinicopathological features and clinical outcome were investigated. AP-4 expression was found to be increased in the NSCLC samples at the gene and protein levels compared with the matched adjacent noncancerous tissues. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the positive expression rates of AP-4 in the 240 NSCLC samples and the matched adjacent noncancerous tissues were 48.3 and 5.8%, respectively. Positive AP-4 expression was found to be significantly associated with the tumor, nodes and metastasis stage and nodal status. Furthermore, patients with NSCLC tumors expressing AP-4 were observed to have a poorer prognosis than those without AP-4 expression. Multivariate analysis revealed that AP-4 expression was an independent prognostic marker (hazard ratio, 2.543; 95% confidence interval, 1.18-5.016; P=0.016) in NSCLC. Thus, positive AP-4 expression may be a potential prognostic marker for NSCLC.
The effects of flavonoids from Korean Scutellaria baicalensis on fibrosarcoma HT1080 cells and their underlying molecular mechanism were investigated in this study. Flavonoids affected HT1080 cell proliferation by interrupting cell cycle progress, obviously augmenting the proportion of sub-G1 and diminishing that of G1 phase, and undergoing apoptosis at the tested dosage (100-400 μg/mL). In addition, the mediated apoptosis was mainly caused by total reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and by up-regulating the ratio of Bax/Bcl-xL, triggering caspase cascades (caspase-3, -9 and -8), and inactivating PARP, dose-dependently. The proteomics results showed that AP-4, ARID 5B, HNRNP K, PLOG, Prdx6, and myosin-1, associated with cell growth, differentiation and development, and overexpressed in gastric cancer, colorectal cancer, pancreatic cancer, etc., were statistically down-regulated after the flavonoids treatment. Taken together, our data demonstrated that flavonoids from Korean S. baicalensis induced apoptosis in HT1080 cells, which involved a hierarchy of cellular pathways and multiple signal proteins, and might be a potential anticancer therapeutic agent.
Adaptor protein complex-4 (AP4) is a component of intracellular transportation of proteins, which is thought to have a unique role in neurons. Recently, mutations affecting all four subunits of AP4 (AP4M1, AP4E1, AP4S1, and AP4B1) have been found to cause similar autosomal recessive phenotype consisting of tetraplegic cerebral palsy and intellectual disability. The aim of this study was analyzing AP4 genes in three new families with this phenotype, and discussing their clinical findings with an emphasis on neuroimaging and facial features. Using homozygosity mapping followed by whole-exome sequencing, we identified two novel homozygous mutations in AP4M1 and a homozygous deletion in AP4B1 in three pairs of siblings. Spastic tetraplegia, microcephaly, severe intellectual disability, limited speech, and stereotypic laughter were common findings in our patients. All patients also had similar facial features consisting of coarse and hypotonic face, bitemporal narrowing, bulbous nose with broad nasal ridge, and short philtrum which were not described in patients with AP4M1 and AP4B1 mutations previously. The patients presented here and previously with AP4M1, AP4B1, and AP4E1 mutations shared brain abnormalities including asymmetrical ventriculomegaly, thin splenium of the corpus callosum, and reduced white matter volume. The patients also had hippocampal globoid formation and thin hippocampus. In conclusion, disorders due to mutations in AP4 complex have similar neurological, facial, and cranial imaging findings. Thus, these four genes encoding AP4 subunits should be screened in patients with autosomal recessive spastic tetraplegic cerebral palsy, severe intellectual disability, and stereotypic laughter, especially with the described facial and cranial MRI features.
The transcription factor AP4 mediates epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in colorectal cancer but its control in this setting is not fully understood. Here, we report the definition of a double-negative feedback loop involving AP4 and miR-15a/16-1 that regulates EMT and metastatic progression. In colorectal cancer cells, AP4 was downregulated by DNA damage in a p53-dependent manner. AP4 downregulation by p53 was mediated indirectly by the tumor-suppressive microRNAs miR-15a and miR-16-1, which targeted the 3' untranslated region (3'-UTR) of AP4 mRNA, induced mesenchymal-epithelial transition (MET), and inhibited colorectal cancer cell migration and invasion. The downregulation of AP4 was necessary for induction of MET and cell cycle arrest by miR-15a/16-1. In tumor xenoplants, ectopic miR-15a/16-1 suppressed formation of lung metastases. Furthermore, AP4 directly suppressed expression of miR-15a/16-1. In clinical specimens of colorectal cancer, miR-15a levels inversely correlated with AP4 protein levels shown previously to correlate with distant metastasis and poor survival. In summary, our results define a double-negative feedback loop involving miR-15a/16-1 and AP4 that stabilizes epithelial and mesenchymal states, respectively, which may determine metastatic prowess.
Here we analyzed the function of the c-MYC-inducible basic helix-loop-helix leucine-zipper transcription factor AP4 in AP4-deficient mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEFs). Loss of AP4 resulted in premature senescence and resistance towards immortalization. Senescence was accompanied by induction of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor-encoding genes p16, a known tumor suppressor, and p21, a previously described target for repression by AP4. Notably, AP4 directly repressed p16 expression via conserved E-box motifs in MEFs and human diploid fibroblasts. Senescence caused by AP4-deficiency was prevented by depletion of p16 and/or p21, demonstrating that these factors mediate senescence caused by AP4 loss. As senescence induced by the loss of AP4 was rescued by ectopic AP4, secondary lesions were not involved in causing premature senescence. Activation of c-MYC resulted in repression of p21 and p16 in AP4(+/+), but not in AP4(-/-) MEFs. Furthermore, after combined expression of c-MYC and mutant RAS in MEFs, AP4 was required for colony formation, anchorage-independent growth and tumor formation in mice. In addition, combined ectopic expression of AP4 and mutant RAS in MEFs resulted in colony formation. However, additional loss of the p53 tumor suppressor was necessary for anchorage-independent growth and tumor formation of MEFs by combined AP4 and mutant RAS expression. In conclusion, this study identified AP4 as an oncogenic antagonist of cellular senescence. AP4 achieves this effect by direct repression of p16 and p21, and may thereby critically contribute to c-MYC function and tumor progression.
Replication initiator 1 (Repin1) was discovered as the replication initiation-region protein 60kDa (RIP60) and characterized as a zinc finger protein involved in DNA binding and bending during initiation of DNA replication. As with many members of the zinc finger family, physiological functions and regulations of Repin1 as well as the underlying molecular mechanisms have remained elusive since its discovery in 1990. However, recent results have revealed interesting new insights into Repin1 function. Repin1 is highly expressed in liver and adipose tissue and it has been suggested as a candidate gene for obesity and related metabolic disorders in congenic and subcongenic rat strains. Repin1 seems to participate in the regulation of genes involved in adipogenesis, lipid droplet formation and fusion, as well as glucose and fatty acid transport in adipocytes. Given the observation that Repin1 expression in human adipose tissue significantly correlates with total body fat mass and adipocyte size, therapeutic strategies to reduce Repin1 action in adipose tissue may be a potential approach to tackle adipose tissue dysfunction in obesity. Thus, human and in vitro data suggest a role of Repin1 in adipocyte function and could therefore emerge as an interesting therapeutic target in human obesity.
Congenic BB rat strains carrying a SHR segment (D4Got41-Tacr1; 60.5-122.8 Mb; BB.4S) or a WOKW segment (D4Got41-Fabp1; 60.5-104.6 Mb; BB.4W) of chromosome 4 within the BB/OK background develop facets of the metabolic syndrome when compared with their parental BB/OK rats. To narrow down potential genes involved in the pathophysiology of metabolic syndrome, gene expression studies in adipose tissues of BB/OK, BB.4S, and BB.4W rats were initiated. Total RNA of subcutaneous and epididymal adipose tissue of BB/OK (n=10), congenic BB.4S (n=8), and BB.4W (n=9) males at an age of 4 weeks was isolated. The mRNA expression of 92 genes involved in obesity, insulin resistance and other metabolic traits was measured by RT-PCR. Significant differences in gene expression were only found in Repin1 in both adipose tissues. Congenic BB.4W showed significantly lower gene expression than did BB.4S and BB/OK. Our findings and newly published findings of Repin1 in 3T3-L1 adipocytes support the hypothesis that Repin1 may affect the development of facets of the metabolic syndrome.
It is well known that lipid metabolism plays an important role in the early stages of type 1 diabetes (T1D). For that reason, we examined factors that influence lipid metabolism of BioBreeding/Ottawa Kalsburg (BB/OK) rats that spontaneously develop an insulin-dependent T1D.
BB/OK female rats were fed a high-fat diet during pregnancy (Ssniff R-Z + 10% tallow) and their progeny were also given this diet up to an age of 30 weeks (n = 55) or 4 weeks (n = 14) to study gene expression of Pparg, Fasn, Lep, Adipoq, Repin1, Rarres 2, and Glut4 in adipose tissue. Forty-two BB/OK rats fed the normal diet (Ssniff R-Z) during pregnancy and the observation period served as controls.
The high-fat diet significantly decreased diabetes frequency in BB/OK rats when compared with control rats (71 versus 95%, p = 0.002). Although this difference was also reflected in the male rats (68 versus 100%, p = 0.003), no significant variation was observed in female rats (73 versus 90%, p = 0.23). The high-fat diet resulted in significantly reduced mRNA expression of examined genes in subcutaneous adipose tissue, but not in visceral adipose tissue, except for Fasn and Repin1 expression.
A high-fat diet seems to protect BB/OK rats from T1D in a sex-specific manner. The data suggest that a high-fat diet might influence fat accumulation and/or fat metabolism and prevent T1D development in male rats, which is supported by changes in adipose tissue gene expression.
Replication initiator 1 (Repin1) is highly expressed in liver and adipose tissue and has been suggested as candidate gene for obesity and its related metabolic disorders in congenic and subcongenic rat strains. The cellular localization and function of Repin1 has remained elusive since its discovery in 1990. To characterize the role of Repin1 in adipocyte biology, we used siRNA knockdown technology to reduce the expression of Repin1 by electroporation of semiconfluent 3T3-L1 preadipocytes. Glucose transport, palmitate uptake as well as triglyceride content were measured. In paired samples of human visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue, we investigated whether Repin1 mRNA expression is related to measures of fat accumulation and adipocyte size. We demonstrate that Repin1 increases during adipogenesis. RNA interference based Repin1 downregulation in mature adipocytes significantly reduces adipocyte size and causes reduced basal, but enhanced insulin stimulated glucose uptake into 3T3-L1 cells. Additionally, knockdown of Repin1 resulted in reduced palmitate uptake and significantly changed the mRNA expression of genes involved lipid droplet formation, adipogenesis, glucose and fatty acid transport. Furthermore, we found significant correlations between Repin1 mRNA expression in human paired visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue and total body fat mass as well as adipocyte size. We have identified a potential role for Repin1 in the regulation of adipocyte size and expression of glucose transporters GLUT1 and GLUT4 in adipocytes.
Congenic and subcongenic rat strains confirmed the quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for facets of the metabolic syndrome between 60.53 and 77.11 Mb on chromosome 4. The analysis of candidate genes in this region favoured the replication initiator 1 (Repin1) characterized by a SNP in the coding region and a triplet repeat (TTT) in the 3'-untranslated region (3'UTR).
We analysed nine rat strains (BB/OK, SHR, F344, BN, DA, LEW, hHTg, WOKW, and their founders WOK-F) and four wild rats on DNA (sequencing) and RNA level (gene expression in blood, liver, subcutaneous, and epididymal adipocytes). In addition, the rats were phenotypically characterized in order to link the rat phenotype to genotype differences in the QTL on chromosome 4.
Wild rats were heterozygous for the SNP (C/T), whereas all the inbred strains were homozygous. The shortest triplet repeat was found in SHR (5) and the highest was found in hHTg and WOKW (11), which developed metabolic disorders. The repeat number correlated with most phenotypic traits studied. Using linear multiple regression analysis with repeat size as the dependent variable and considering all the data of this study, it was clearly demonstrated that not only VLDL cholesterol and serum insulin but also the expression of Repin1 in the liver is significantly associated with the repeat size of the 3'UTR.
It is concluded that the triplet repeat expansion in 3'UTR is involved in metabolic alterations as found in hHTg and WOKW rats and that the functional unknown gene, Repin1, could be a novel candidate gene for the development of facets of the metabolic syndrome.
The transcription of neuron-specific genes must be repressed in nonneuronal cells. REST/NRSF is a transcription factor that restricts the expression of many neuronal genes through interaction with the neuron-restrictive silencer element at the promoter level. PAHX-AP1 is a neuronal gene that is developmentally up-regulated in the adult mouse brain but that has no functional NRSE motif in its 5' upstream sequence. Here, we report that the transcription factor AP4 and the corepressor geminin form a functional complex in which SMRT and histone deacetylase 3 are recruited. The functional complex represses PAHX-AP1 expression in nonneuronal cells and participates in regulating the developmental expression of PAHX-AP1 in the brain. This complex also serves as a transcriptional repressor of DYRK1A, a candidate gene for Down's syndrome. Furthermore, compared with that in normal fetal brain, the expression of AP4 and geminin is reduced in Down's syndrome fetal brain at 20 weeks of gestation age, at which time premature overexpression of dual-specificity tyrosine-phosphorylated and regulated kinase 1A (DYRK1A) is observed. Our findings indicate that AP4 and geminin act as a previously undescribed repressor complex distinct from REST/NRSF to negatively regulate the expression of target genes in nonneuronal cells and suggest that the AP4-geminin complex may contribute to suppressing the precocious expression of target genes in fetal brain.
Experimental studies of complete mammalian genes and other genetic domains are impeded by the difficulty of introducing large DNA molecules into cells in culture. Previously we have shown that GST-Z2, a protein that contains three zinc fingers and a proline-rich multimerization domain from the polydactyl zinc finger protein RIP60 fused to glutathione S-transferase (GST), mediates DNA binding and looping in vitro. Atomic force microscopy showed that GST-Z2 is able to condense 130-150 kb bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) into protein-DNA complexes containing multiple DNA loops. Condensation of the DNA loops onto the Z2 protein-BAC DNA core complexes with cationic lipid resulted in particles that were readily transferred into multiple cell types in culture. Transfer of total genomic linear DNA containing amplified DHFR genes into DHFR(-) cells by GST-Z2 resulted in a 10-fold higher transformation rate than calcium phosphate co-precipitation. Chinese hamster ovarian cells transfected with a BAC containing the human TP53 gene locus expressed p53, showing native promoter elements are active after GST-Z2-mediated gene transfer. Because DNA condensation by GST-Z2 does not require the introduction of specific recognition sequences into the DNA substrate, condensation by the Z2 domain of RIP60 may be used in conjunction with a variety of other agents to provide a flexible and efficient non-viral platform for the delivery of large genes into mammalian cells.
Initiation of DNA replication occurs with high frequency within oribeta, a short region 3' to the Chinese hamster dhfr gene. Homodimers of RIP60 (replication initiation-region protein 60 kDA) purified from nuclear extract bind two ATT-rich sites in oribeta and foster the formation of a twisted 720 bp DNA loop in vitro. Using a one hybrid screen in yeast, we have cloned the cDNA for human RIP60. RIP60 contains 15 C(2)H(2)zinc finger (ZF) DNA binding motifs organized in three clusters, termed hand Z1 (ZFs 1-5), hand Z2 (ZFs 6-8) and hand Z3 (ZFs 9-15). A proline-rich region is located between hands Z2 and Z3. Gel mobility shift and DNase I footprinting experiments show hands Z1 and Z2 independently bind the oribeta RIP60 sites specifically, but with different affinities. Hand Z3 binds DNA, but displays no specificity for RIP60 sites. Ligation enhancement, DNase I footprinting, and atomic force microscopy assays show that hand Z2 and a portion of the associated proline-rich region is sufficient for protein multimerization on DNA and DNA looping in vitro. Polyomavirus origin-dependent plasmid replication assays show RIP60 has weak replication enhancer activity, suggesting that RIP60 does not harbor a transcriptional transactivation domain. Because vertebrate origins of replication have no known consensus sequence, we suggest that sequence-specific DNA binding proteins such as RIP60 may act as accessory factors in origin identification prior to the assembly of pre-initiation complexes.
Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappaB ligand (RANKL) induces osteoclast differentiation from hematopoietic precursors via regulation of various transcription factors. Here, we show that upstream stimulatory factors (USFs), which are basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper transcription factors, are involved in RANKL-mediated osteoclastogenesis and regulation of osteoclast-associated receptor (OSCAR) gene expression, which is an important costimulatory receptor for osteoclast differentiation. USF-1 and USF-2 are expressed in hematopoietic osteoclast precursors and mature osteoclasts. Interestingly, down-regulation of USF-1 by RNA interference or overexpression of a dominant-negative form of USF-1 attenuates osteoclast formation and expression of OSCAR during osteoclastogenesis. Promoter analysis and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays reveal that USFs bind directly to an E-box site in the OSCAR promoter region and activate OSCAR. In addition, USFs interact and cooperate with nuclear factor of activated T cells c1 in regulating OSCAR gene expression. Taken together, our results indicate that USFs serve as modulators in the induction of OSCAR and RANKL-mediated osteoclastogenesis.
Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) ligand (RANKL), a critical activator of osteoclast differentiation, plays a pivotal role in tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) gene expression. Previously, we showed that upstream stimulatory factors (USF) 1 and 2 are implicated in the RANKL-induced TRAP transcriptional activation via a 12-bp USF binding site in the TRAP promoter. In that study, we also demonstrated that a RANKL-induced nuclear protein binds to a 50-bp oligonucleotide (Oligo IV) corresponding to a distinct TRAP promoter region. Here we report the identification and functional characterization of the nuclear protein binding to Oligo IV. We identified a 21-bp sequence CTGTTTATGATGGCGAGGGGG in Oligo IV that specifically binds the RANKL-induced nuclear protein from RAW264.7 cells by performing a series of competition assays. Computer analysis of the 21-bp sequence revealed that the sequence contains a putative Yin Yang 1 (YY1) binding site overlapped with a putative activator protein-2 (AP-2) binding site. Competition and supershift assays indicated that the nuclear protein binding to the 21-bp sequence is YY1, not AP-2. Functionally, mutation of the YY1-binding site resulted in a reduction in the RANKL-induced TRAP transcription in RAW264.7 cells, demonstrating that YY1 positively regulates RANKL-induced TRAP transcriptional activation. In conclusion, our data demonstrated that YY1 plays a functional role in RANKL-mediated TRAP gene expression during osteoclast differentiation.
Tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) plays an important role in bone resorption. TRAP expression in osteoclasts is regulated by receptor activator of NF-kappaB (RANKL), a potent activator of osteoclast differentiation. However, the molecular mechanism underlying the RANKL-induced TRAP expression remains unknown. Here we show that two regions in the mouse TRAP promoter (one at -1858 to -1239 and the other at -1239 to -1039, relative to the translation start site) are implicated in RANKL-induced TRAP transcription in RAW264.7 cells. A detailed characterization of the region at -1239 to -1039 identifies a 12-bp sequence, AGCCACGTGGTG, that specifically binds nuclear proteins from RAW264.7 cells and primary bone marrow macrophages (BMMs) in an electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). Moreover, the binding is significantly enhanced in EMSA with nuclear extracts from RANKL-treated RAW264.7 cells and BMMs, suggesting that the 12-bp sequence may be involved in RANKL-induced TRAP transcription. Various assays reveal that nuclear proteins binding to the 12-bp sequence are upstream stimulatory factors (USF) 1 and 2. Importantly, mutation of the USF-binding site partially blocks RANKL-induced TRAP transcription in RAW264.7 cells, confirming that USF1 and USF2 are functionally involved in RANKL-induced TRAP transcription. In summary, our data show that USF1 and USF2 play a functional role in RANKL-dependent TRAP expression during osteoclast differentiation.
Immunoglobulin replacement therapy has been standard treatment in patients with primary immunodeficiency diseases for the past 3 decades. The goal of therapy is to reduce serious bacterial infections in individuals with antibody function defects. Approximately one-third of patients receiving intravenous immunoglobulin treatment experience adverse reactions. Recent advances in manufacturing processes have resulted in products that are safer and better tolerated. Self-infusion by the subcutaneous route has become popular and resulted in better quality of life. This review summarizes the use of immunoglobulin therapy in primary immunodeficiency diseases including its properties, dosing, adverse effects, and different routes of administration.
Research demonstrates ethnic differences in rates of body dissatisfaction and disordered eating. Appearance comparison frequency is related to these outcomes, however, research has not examined possible ethnic differences in levels of appearance comparisons nor their relation to body dissatisfaction and disordered eating. The current study examined the frequency of appearance comparisons and the strength of the relationships between appearance comparisons, appearance evaluation, and disordered eating among White, Black, and Hispanic women. Measures of appearance comparison, appearance evaluation, and disordered eating were administered to 895 college women. Compared with White and Hispanic women, Black women reported fewer appearance comparisons, more positive appearance evaluation, and lower levels of disordered eating. Associations between examined variables were generally weaker among Black women. Results suggest that the reduced frequency and impact of appearance comparisons may contribute to more positive appearance evaluation and reduced levels of disordered eating among Black women.
Endometriosis, pro-inflammatory and invasive benign disease estrogen dependent, abnormally express in endometria the enzyme P450Arom, positively regulated by steroid factor-1 (SF-1). Our objective was to study the nuclear protein contents of upstream stimulating factor 2 (USF2a and USF2b), a positive regulator of SF-1, throughout the menstrual cycle in eutopic endometria from women with and without (control) endometriosis and the involvement of nuclear estrogen receptors (ER) and G-coupled protein estrogen receptor (GPER)-1.
Upstream stimulating factor 2 protein contents were higher in mid (USF2b) and late (USF2a and USF2b) secretory phase in eutopic endometria from endometriosis than control (p < 0.05). In isolated control epithelial cells incubated with E2 and PGE2, to resemble the endometriosis condition, the data showed: (a) significant increase of USF2a and USF2b nuclear protein contents when treated with E2, PPT (specific agonist for ERα) or G1 (specific agonist for GPER1); (b) no increase in USF2 binding to SF-1 E-Box/DNA consensus sequence in E2-treated cells; (c) USF2 variants protein contents were not modified by PGE2; (d) SF-1 nuclear protein content was significantly higher than basal when treated with PGE2, E2 or G1, stimulation unaffected by ICI (nuclear ER antagonist); and (e) increased (p < 0.05) cytosolic protein contents of P450Arom when treated with PGE2, E2, PPT or G1 compared to basal, effect that was additive with E2 + PGE2 together. Nevertheless, in endometriosis cells, the high USF2, SF-1 and P450Arom protein contents in basal condition were unmodified.
These data strongly suggest that USF2 variants and P450Arom are regulated by E2 through ERα and GPER1, whereas SF-1 through GPER1, visualized by the response of the cells obtained from control endometria, being unaffected the endogenously stimulated cells from endometriosis origin. The lack of E2 stimulation on USF2/SF-1 E-Box/DNA-sequence binding and the absence of PGE2 effect on USF2 variants opposite to the strong induction that they exert on SF1 and P450 proteins suggest different mechanisms and indirect regulations. The sustained USF2 variants protein expression during the secretory phase in eutopic endometria from women with endometriosis may participate in the pathophysiology of this disease strongly associated with infertility and its characteristic endometrial invasion to ectopic sites in the pelvic cavity.
This study examined the feasibility and potential efficacy of the family-centered Prevent-Teach-Reinforce (PTR) model with three families of young children with an autism spectrum disorder or language delay with sensory processing problems. Particularly, the study assessed the family adherence to the PTR intervention, changes in child behavior, family use of the Individualized Behavior Rating Scale Tool (IBRST), procedural integrity, and social validity. A multiple-baseline design across families was used to examine the functional relation between parent-implemented PTR intervention and changes in child behavior. Results indicated that the family-centered PTR process was successful in promoting parents to design and implement the PTR intervention plans with fidelity, and the parents' implemented intervention plans were effective in increasing replacement behavior and decreasing problem behavior across children. The results also indicated that the parents successfully used the IBRST to monitor their child's progress and were highly satisfied with the PTR intervention process and outcomes for their children.
Luminance and contrast adaptation are neuronal mechanisms employed by the visual system to continually adjust our sensitivity to light. They are mediated by an assortment of cellular and network processes distributed across the retina and visual cortex. Both have been demonstrated in the eyes of many vertebrates, but only luminance adaptation has been shown in invertebrate eyes to date. Since the computational benefits of contrast adaptation should apply to all visual systems, we investigated whether this mechanism operates in horseshoe crab eyes, one of the best understood neural networks in the animal kingdom. The spike trains of optic nerve fibers were recorded in response to light stimuli modulated randomly in time and delivered to single ommatidia or the whole eye. We found that the retina adapts to both the mean luminance and contrast of a white noise stimulus, that luminance- and contrast-adaptive processes are largely independent, and that they originate within an ommatidium. Network interactions are not involved. A published computer model that simulates existing knowledge of the horseshoe crab eye did not show contrast adaptation, suggesting that a heretofore unknown mechanism may underlie the phenomenon. This mechanism does not appear to reside in photoreceptors because white noise analysis of electroretinogram recordings did not show contrast adaptation. The likely site of origin is therefore the spike discharge mechanism of optic nerve fibers. The finding of contrast adaption in a retinal network as simple as the horseshoe crab eye underscores the broader importance of this image processing strategy to vision.
Centrosome amplification is frequent in cancer, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here we report that disruption of the Kruppel-like factor 14 (KLF14) gene in mice causes centrosome amplification, aneuploidy and spontaneous tumorigenesis. Molecularly, KLF14 functions as a transcriptional repressor of Plk4, a polo-like kinase whose overexpression induces centrosome overduplication. Transient knockdown of KLF14 is sufficient to induce Plk4-directed centrosome amplification. Clinically, KLF14 transcription is significantly downregulated, whereas Plk4 transcription is upregulated in multiple types of cancers, and there exists an inverse correlation between KLF14 and Plk4 protein expression in human breast and colon cancers. Moreover, KLF14 depletion promotes AOM/DSS-induced colon tumorigenesis. Our findings reveal that KLF14 reduction serves as a mechanism leading to centrosome amplification and tumorigenesis. On the other hand, forced expression of KLF14 leads to mitotic catastrophe. Collectively, our findings identify KLF14 as a tumour suppressor and highlight its potential as biomarker and therapeutic target for cancer.
Although there are efficacious, evidence-based treatments for anxiety disorders, youth often experience delays in seeking therapy. Myriad reasons may contribute to this lag in treatment initiation, with some youth possessing concerns about therapy. Treatment concerns are broadly characterized by worries/ambivalence about seeking treatment, including concerns about the negative reactions, consequences, and inconvenience of treatment. As no studies exist for youth with anxiety disorders, this study examined the phenomenology of treatment concerns in 119 treatment-seeking, anxious youth and utilized a structural equation model to examine the relationship between child anxiety, depressive symptoms, treatment concerns, and anxiety-related functional impairment. Over 90 % of the children positively endorsed some type of treatment-related fear, with the most frequently expressed concern being that therapy would take too much time (50.4 %). Based on the model, both child anxiety and depressive symptoms predicted functional impairment, and treatment concerns mediated the relationship between child anxiety and functional impairment.
Transport in heavily-doped polymer composites, characterized by localized charge regions, is examined in light of the recent interest in polymers for thermoelectric applications. The developed fundamental transport theory describes carrier tunneling between charged localizations by taking into account thermally induced fluctuations of the applied potential. A range of characteristic behaviors corresponding to experimental data are described. Deviations from the Wiedemann-Franz law are also identified. This novel theory enables the determination of factors dominating the transport in polymers and a comparison to tunneling without thermal fluctuations is also provided. The obtained asymptotic expressions for the conductivity, Seebeck coefficient, and carrier thermal conductivity are particularly useful for elucidating possible routes for thermoelectric transport control and optimization.
Quantitative analysis of MUC1, a cell membrane associated mucin, expressed by intact cells of epithelial origin previously has been limited to flow cytometry, which requires using large quantities of cells and antibodies. Here, for the first time, we report the development of a novel Cellular-based Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (Cell ELISA) to quantify the expression of MUC1 by cell lines of epithelial and neuroectodermal origin using an antibody recognizing a specific tandem repeat found in the extracellular domain of MUC1. In contrast to flow cytometry, this method requires a much lower number of cells. We report here the results obtained from two variants of this Cell ELISA in live and fixed cells. We found that the Cell ELISA in live cells was not sensitive enough to detect a difference in MUC1 levels between the normal cells and tumor cells. However, we found that Cell ELISA in fixed cells followed by whole cell staining was a dependable method of MUC1 level detection in the normal and tumor cells showing significantly higher levels of MUC1 receptor in the tumor cells when compared to the normal controls. Therefore, we conclude that the Cell ELISA in fixed cells is an efficient method for quantifying the expression of MUC1 by epithelial and neuroectodermal cancer cell lines.
The aim of this study was to report an acute onset of symptoms erroneously attributed to serotonin syndrome in a child who had been given both anticholinergic and serotonergic agents.
A 9-year-old girl with chronic anxiety and gastrointestinal problems was prescribed oral sertraline 6.25 mg daily, as well as hyoscyamine, ondansetron, montelukast, and a course of nitazoxanide. She was also routinely given diphenhydramine and omeprazole. Three days after increasing sertraline to 12.5 mg, she presented to the emergency department with altered mental status, hallucinations, mydriasis, tachycardia, and pyrexia. She was admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit and subsequently treated unsuccessfully for serotonin syndrome, with blurred vision and clonus persisting at discharge 4 days after admittance. Upon follow-up with her outpatient clinic, all anticholinergic agents were discontinued, and symptoms slowly resolved.
This case illustrates the importance of differential diagnosis between toxidromes and how clinical presentation can be altered by preexisting conditions as well as the use of medications that affect multiple neurotransmitter systems.
Microglia, the resident immune cells of the brain, have been shown to display a complex spectrum of roles that span from neurotrophic to neurotoxic depending on their activation status. Microglia can be classified into four stages of activation, M1, which most closely matches the classical (pro-inflammatory) activation stage, and the alternative activation stages M2a, M2b, and M2c. The alternative activation stages have not yet been comprehensively analyzed through unbiased, global-scale protein expression profiling. In this study, BV2 mouse immortalized microglial cells were stimulated with agonists specific for each of the four stages and total protein expression for 4,644 protein groups was quantified using SILAC-based proteomic analysis. After validating induction of the various stages through a targeted cytokine assay and western blotting of activation states, the data revealed novel insights into the similarities and differences between the various states. The data identify several protein groups whose expression in the anti-inflammatory, pro-healing activation states are altered presumably to curtail inflammatory activation through differential protein expression, in the M2a state including CD74, LYN, SQST1, TLR2, and CD14. The differential expression of these proteins promotes healing, limits phagocytosis, and limits activation of reactive nitrogen species through toll-like receptor cascades. The M2c state appears to center around the down-regulation of a key member in the formation of actin-rich phagosomes, SLP-76. In addition, the proteomic data identified a novel activation marker, DAB2, which is involved in clathrin-mediated endocytosis and is significantly different between M2a and either M1 or M2b states. Western blot analysis of mouse primary microglia stimulated with the various agonists of the classical and alternative activation states revealed a similar trend of DAB2 expression compared with BV2 cells.
End-stage liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma due to hepatitis C virus (HCV) co-infection are increasingly common causes of death among HIV-infected individuals. However, there are few clinical investigations of HIV/HCV co-infected individuals from low and middle-income nations. Here, we compare the epidemiology of HCV-infected and HIV/HCV co-infected individuals in Southern China and examine hepatic fibrosis scores in co-infected individuals.
We conducted a retrospective cross-sectional study of treatment-naïve HIV/HCV co-infected and HCV mono-infected subjects. Bivariate and multivariate models were used to examine the association between demographics and HCV genotype. Among co-infected individuals, we also studied the relationship between fibrosis scores derived from non-invasive studies and HCV genotype.
Data were collected from 175 HCV-infected individuals, including 89 (51 %) HIV/HCV co-infected individuals. HIV/HCV co-infection was correlated with intravenous drug use (AOR 46.25, p < 0.001) and not completing high school (AOR 17.39, p < 0.001) in a multivariate model. HIV/HCV co-infected individuals were more likely to be infected with HCV genotype 6a (p < 0.0001) or 3a (p < 0.023), whereas increased fibrosis (FIB-4 score) was associated with HCV genotype 3a infection (β 2.18, p < 0.001).
Our results suggest that intravenous drug use is driving HIV/HCV co-infection in Southern China. While additional studies are needed, HCV genotype 6a is more common and genotype 3a appears to be associated with more severe hepatic fibrosis in co-infected individuals.
Future HIV/HCV co-infection research in China should focus on at risk populations, HCV testing uptake, and genotype-specific treatment.
Regulators of G protein signaling (RGS proteins) are key components of GPCR complexes, interacting directly with G protein α-subunits to enhance their intrinsic GTPase activity. The functional consequence is an accelerated termination of G protein effectors including certain ion channels. RGS proteins have a profound impact on the membrane-delimited gating behavior of G-protein-activated inwardly rectifying K(+) (GIRK) channels as demonstrated in reconstitution assays and recent RGS knockout mice studies. Akin to GPCRs and G protein αβγ subunits, multiple RGS isoforms are expressed within single GIRK-expressing neurons, suggesting functional redundancy and/or specificity in GPCR-GIRK channel signaling. The extent and impact of RGS redundancy in neuronal GPCR-GIRK channel signaling is currently not fully appreciated; however, recent studies from RGS knockout mice are providing important new clues on the impact of individual endogenous RGS proteins and the extent of RGS functional redundancy. Incorporating "tools" such as engineered RGS-resistant Gαi/o subunits provide an important assessment method for determining the impact of all endogenous RGS proteins on a given GPCR response and an accounting benchmark to assess the impact of individual RGS knockouts on overall RGS redundancy within a given neuron. Elucidating the degree of regulation attributable to specific RGS proteins in GIRK channel function will aid in the assessment of individual RGS proteins as viable therapeutic targets in epilepsy, ataxia's, memory disorders, and a growing list of neurological disorders.
The Massachusetts General Hospital Hairpulling Scale (MGH-HPS) and the NIMH Trichotillomania Severity Scale (NIMH-TSS) are two widely used measures of trichotillomania severity. Despite their popular use, currently no empirically-supported guidelines exist to determine the degrees of change on these scales that best indicate treatment response. Determination of such criteria could aid in clinical decision-making by defining clinically significant treatment response/recovery and producing accurate power analyses for use in clinical trials research. Adults with trichotillomania (N=69) participated in a randomized controlled trial of psychotherapy and were assessed before and after treatment. Response status was measured via the Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement Scale, and remission status was measured via the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity Scale. For treatment response, a 45% reduction or 7-point raw score change on the MGH-HPS was the best indicator of clinically significant treatment response, and on the NIMH-TSS, a 30-40% reduction or 6-point raw score difference was most effective cutoff. For disorder remission, a 55-60% reduction or 7-point raw score change on the MGH-HPS was the best predictor, and on the NIMH-TSS, a 65% reduction or 6-point raw score change was the best indicator of disorder remission. Implications of these findings are discussed.
Retroviruses selectively package two copies of their unspliced genomes by what appears to be a dimerization-dependent RNA packaging mechanism. Dimerization of human immunodeficiency virus Type-1 (HIV-1) genomes is initiated by "kissing" interactions between GC-rich palindromic loop residues of a conserved hairpin (DIS), and is indirectly promoted by long-range base pairing between residues overlapping the gag start codon (AUG) and an upstream Unique 5' element (U5). The DIS and U5:AUG structures are phylogenetically conserved among divergent retroviruses, suggesting conserved functions. However, some studies suggest that the DIS of HIV-2 does not participate in dimerization, and that U5:AUG pairing inhibits, rather than promotes, genome dimerization. We prepared RNAs corresponding to native and mutant forms of the 5' leaders of HIV-1 (NL4-3 strain), HIV-2 (ROD strain), and two divergent strains of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV; cpz-TAN1 and -US strains), and probed for potential roles of the DIS and U5:AUG base pairing on intrinsic and NC-dependent dimerization by mutagenesis, gel electrophoresis, and NMR spectroscopy.
Dimeric forms of the native HIV-2 and SIV leaders were only detectable using running buffers that contained Mg(2+), indicating that these dimers are more labile than that of the HIV-1 leader. Mutations designed to promote U5:AUG base pairing promoted dimerization of the HIV-2 and SIV RNAs, whereas mutations that prevented U5:AUG pairing inhibited dimerization. Chimeric HIV-2 and SIV leader RNAs containing the dimer-promoting loop of HIV-1 (DIS) exhibited HIV-1 leader-like dimerization properties, whereas an HIV-1NL4-3 mutant containing the SIVcpzTAN1 DIS loop behaved like the SIVcpzTAN1 leader. The cognate NC proteins exhibited varying abilities to promote dimerization of the retroviral leader RNAs, but none were able to convert labile dimers to non-labile dimers.
The finding that U5:AUG formation promotes dimerization of the full-length HIV-1, HIV-2, SIVcpzUS, and SIVcpzTAN1 5' leaders suggests that these retroviruses utilize a common RNA structural switch mechanism to modulate function. Differences in native and NC-dependent dimerization propensity and lability are due to variations in the compositions of the DIS loop residues rather than other sequences within the leader RNAs. Although NC is a well-known RNA chaperone, its role in dimerization has the hallmarks of a classical riboswitch.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCM) of the temporal lobe often present with seizures. Surgical resection of these lesions can offer durable seizure control. There is, however, no universally accepted methodology for assessing and surgically treating these patients. We propose an algorithm to maximize positive surgical outcomes (seizure control) while minimizing post-surgical neurological deficit.
A retrospective review of 34 patients who underwent epilepsy surgery for radiographically proven temporal lobe CCM was conducted. Patients underwent a relatively standard work-up for seizure localization. In patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE), a complete resection of the epileptogenic zone was performed including amygdalo-hippocampectomy in addition to a lesionectomy if not contraindicated by pre-operative work-up. Patients with neocortical epilepsy underwent intraoperative electrocorticography (ECoG)-guided lesionectomy.
Seizure-free rate for mesial and neocortical (anterior, lateral, and basal) location was 90 vs. 83 %, respectively. Complete resection of the lesion, irrespective of location, was statistically significant for seizure control (p = 0.018). There was no difference in seizure control based on disease duration or location (p > 0.05). Patients with mesial temporal CCM who presented with MTLE were presumed to also have mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS), or dual pathology. These patients underwent routine resection of the mesial structures. Interestingly, patients who had MTLE and basal (neocortical) lesions who underwent a mesial resection for suspected MTS were found not to have dual pathology.
Patients with temporal lobe CCM should be offered resection for durable seizure control, prevention of secondary epileptogenic foci, and elimination of hemorrhage risk. The preoperative work-up should follow a team approach. Surgical intervention should include complete lesionectomy in all cases. Intra or extra-operative ECoG for neocortical lesions may be beneficial. Management of mesial temporal CCMs (archicortex) should consider resection of a well-defined epileptogenic zone (including mesial structures) due to high probability of pathologically proven MTS. The use of this treatment algorithm is useful for the education and treatment of these patients.
Aging is associated with a decline in function in many of the stem cell niches of the body. An emerging body of literature suggests that one of the reasons for this decline in function is due to cell non-autonomous influences on the niche from the body. For example, studies using the technique of parabiosis have demonstrated a negative influence of blood from aged mice on muscle satellite cells and neurogenesis in young mice. We examined if we could reverse this effect of aged serum on stem cell proliferation by treating aged rats with NT-020, a dietary supplement containing blueberry, green tea, vitamin D3, and carnosine that has been shown to increase neurogenesis in aged rats. Young and aged rats were administered either control NIH-31 diet or one supplemented with NT-020 for 28 days, and serum was collected upon euthanasia. The serum was used in cultures of both rat hippocampal neural progenitor cells (NPCs) and rat bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Serum from aged rats significantly reduced cell proliferation as measured by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) assays in both NPCs and MSCs. Serum from aged rats treated with NT-020 was not different from serum from young rats. Therefore, NT-020 rescued the effect of serum from aged rats to reduce stem cell proliferation.
Gynecomastia is defined as excess glandular growth of breast tissue in males. It is a noticeable physical difference that commonly affects males in adolescence and old age. While often transient in nature, gynecomastia persists indefinitely in 10% of cases. Much of the literature on gynecomastia has focused on etiology and management. Little research has been done regarding the impact of gynecomastia on one's mental health and quality of life; however, some studies have suggested various psychosocial and psychological consequences related to gynecomastia. These consequences include but are not limited to depression, anxiety, disordered eating, body dissatisfaction, and reduced self-esteem. The aims of this paper are to review the current gynecomastia literature, bring awareness to an understudied but troubled population, and discuss directions for future work, including offering extant models of body image to guide researchers.
To determine the prevalence of multimorbidity in the adult population attending primary care in Portugal, to identify associated sociodemographic factors, and to reveal combinations of chronic health problems.
Cross-sectional, analytical study.
Primary Care Centres in mainland Portugal across the five Portuguese Healthcare Administrative Regions.
1279 women and 714 men agreed to participate. The mean age was 56.3 years (59.0 years for men; 54.8 years for women). The most frequent marital status was married/cohabiting (69.5%). The most predominant living arrangement was living as a couple (57.2%). A considerable proportion consisted of pensioners/retirees (41.5%) and adults with a low educational level (48.7%). Sufficient monthly income was reported in 54.4% of the cases.
For each patient, multimorbidity was measured either by the presence of ≥2 or ≥3 chronic health problems, from a list of 147 chronic health problems. Clinical data were collected using the general practitioner's knowledge of the patient's history, patient's self-report and medical records. Cluster analyses were performed to reveal distinct patterns of multimorbidity.
Patient social and demographic data (sex, age, residence area, current marital status, number of years of formal education, living arrangements, professional status and self-perceived economic status). Logistic regression analyses were performed to determine the association between sociodemographic factors and multimorbidity.
Multimorbidity (2 or more chronic health problems) was present in 72.7%. When a cut-off of three or more was used, an expressive percentage of multimorbidity (57.2%) remained present. The likelihood of having multimorbidity increased significantly with age. Pensioners/retirees and adults with low levels of education were significantly more likely to suffer from multimorbidity. Cardiometabolic and mental disorders were the most common chronic health problems. Six multimorbidity clusters have been identified.
Multimorbidity was found to be a common occurrence in the Portuguese primary care users. Future primary healthcare policies should take multimorbidity into consideration.
Microalgae are a promising source of biofuels and bioproducts, as they consume CO2 to grow, multiply quickly, and can be cultivated in wastewater and on marginal land. Development of low-cost and high-efficiency microalgal cultivation systems is important to the cost-competitiveness of algae. A floating horizontal photobioreactor (HBR) was developed that is inexpensive and scalable, as it is manufactured from inexpensive plastic film and is modular. Its performance was successfully tested using the marine microalgae Nannochloris atomus Butcher CCAP 251/4A in a 65-L prototype unit. High biomass concentration of 4.0gL(-1) and productivity of 12.9gm(-2)d(-1) was achieved indoors under artificial illumination of 31.3klux (435μmolm(-2)s(-1)). Outdoors, during semi-continuous operation in Florida, the HBR achieved over the course of 165days a maximum biomass concentration of 4.3gL(-1) and an average biomass productivity of 18.2gm(-2)d(-1) without any contamination issues.
In this report we described the isolation of transcription factor E4BP4 by lambda gt11 expression cloning using a probe containing the CRE/ATF-like sequence located between -2764 bp and -2753 bp in the upstream regulatory region for the human IL-1 beta gene. DNaseI protection, gel mobility shift analysis, and cotransfection studies were performed to investigate the binding and functional properties of E4BP4 using IL-1 beta promoter sequences. By DNaseI footprinting, a protection pattern was generated over the CRE/ATF-like site and the flanking sequences by bacterially produced E4BP4. Competition experiment by gel shift assay indicated that E4BP4 bound specifically to CRE/ATF-like site, not NF kappa B-like site. In cotransfection studies, E4BP4 repressed promoter activity and this repression was mediated through the CRE/ATF-like site. Mutational analysis of E4BP4 suggested that the DNA binding as well as repression activities required leucine heptad repeat domain. Analysis of E4BP4 produced in Escherichia coli and Sf9 cells infected with recombinant baculovirus indicated that baculovirus produced protein showed enhanced binding to the CRE/ATF-like site compared to the E. coli-produced protein. Analysis of posttranslational modifications indicated that E4BP4 produced in Sf9 cells was phosphorylated and this phosphorylation was important for the DNA binding activity of E4BP4.
Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 3C (EBNA3C) repression of CDKN2A p14(ARF) and p16(INK4A) is essential for immortal human B-lymphoblastoid cell line (LCL) growth. EBNA3C ChIP-sequencing identified >13,000 EBNA3C sites in LCL DNA. Most EBNA3C sites were associated with active transcription; 64% were strong H3K4me1- and H3K27ac-marked enhancers and 16% were active promoters marked by H3K4me3 and H3K9ac. Using ENCODE LCL transcription factor ChIP-sequencing data, EBNA3C sites coincided (±250 bp) with RUNX3 (64%), BATF (55%), ATF2 (51%), IRF4 (41%), MEF2A (35%), PAX5 (34%), SPI1 (29%), BCL11a (28%), SP1 (26%), TCF12 (23%), NF-κB (23%), POU2F2 (23%), and RBPJ (16%). EBNA3C sites separated into five distinct clusters: (i) Sin3A, (ii) EBNA2/RBPJ, (iii) SPI1, and (iv) strong or (v) weak BATF/IRF4. EBNA3C signals were positively affected by RUNX3, BATF/IRF4 (AICE) and SPI1/IRF4 (EICE) cooccupancy. Gene set enrichment analyses correlated EBNA3C/Sin3A promoter sites with transcription down-regulation (P < 1.6 × 10(-4)). EBNA3C signals were strongest at BATF/IRF4 and SPI1/IRF4 composite sites. EBNA3C bound strongly to the p14(ARF) promoter through SPI1/IRF4/BATF/RUNX3, establishing RBPJ-, Sin3A-, and REST-mediated repression. EBNA3C immune precipitated with Sin3A and conditional EBNA3C inactivation significantly decreased Sin3A binding at the p14(ARF) promoter (P < 0.05). These data support a model in which EBNA3C binds strongly to BATF/IRF4/SPI1/RUNX3 sites to enhance transcription and recruits RBPJ/Sin3A- and REST/NRSF-repressive complexes to repress p14(ARF) and p16(INK4A) expression.
Expression controls of the carbon acquisition system in marine diatoms in response to environmental factors are an essential issue to understand the changes in marine primary productivity. A pyrenoidal β-carbonic anhydrase, PtCA1, is one of the most important candidates to investigate the control mechanisms of the CO(2) acquisition system in the marine diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum. A detailed functional assay was carried out on the putative core regulatory region of the ptca1 promoter using a β-glucuronidase reporter in P. tricornutum cells under changing CO(2) conditions. A set of loss-of-function assays led to the identification of three CO(2)-responsive elements, TGACGT, ACGTCA, and TGACGC, at a region -86 to -42 relative to the transcription start site. Treatment with a cyclic (c)AMP analog, dibutyryl cAMP, revealed these three elements to be under the control of cAMP; thus, we designated them, from 5' to 3', as CO(2)-cAMP-Responsive Element1 (CCRE1), CCRE2, and CCRE3. Because the sequence TGACGT is known to be a typical target of human Activating Transcription Factor6 (ATF6), we searched for genes containing a basic zipper (bZIP) region homologous to that of ATF6 in the genome of P. tricornutum. Gel-shift assays using CCRE pentamers as labeled probes showed that at least one candidate of bZIP proteins, PtbZIP11, bound specifically to CCREs. A series of gain-of-function assays with CCREs fused to a minimal promoter strongly suggested that the alternative combination of CCRE1/2 or CCRE2/3 at proper distances from the minimal promoter is required as a potential target of PtbZIP11 for an effective CO(2) response of the ptca1 gene.
The bovine leukemia virus transactivator, BLV Tax, augments transcription from three imperfect 21-bp repeats in the viral transcriptional regulatory region. Each BLV 21-bp repeat contains a cAMP response element (CRE) in the center and unique 5' and 3' neighboring sequences which are crucial for the transcriptional activation by BLV Tax. Here we describe the interactions of recombinant BLV Tax with cellular bZip proteins. The recombinant BLV Tax, tagged at the carboxy terminus with a hexahistidine extension, was prepared by solubilization in 6 M guanidine hydrochloride and renaturation on the Ni(2+)-chelating Sepharose gel matrix. The renatured BLV TaxH6 activates the BLV LTR when introduced into HeLa cells by scrape loading. Furthermore, the purified BLV TaxH6 enhances binding of members of the CREB/ATF family of bZip proteins to CRE motifs by interacting with their bZip domains in vitro. Chemical cross-linking indicates that dimerization of bZip proteins such as CREB becomes greatly facilitated in the presence of BLV Tax. These results suggest that BLV Tax interacts directly with CREB/ATF-like factors to activate viral mRNA transcription.
Proper embryonic development requires a fine-tuned control of gene expression, which is achieved in part through the activity of transcription coactivators or corepressors. The nuclear coactivator cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) binding protein (CREBBP or CBP) interacts with numerous transcription factors and thereby plays a key role in various signaling pathways. Interestingly, in cell-based studies CREBBP activity is modulated by post-translational modifications such as methylation on arginine residues which is catalyzed by coactivator-associated arginine methyltransferase 1 (CARM1). However, whether and where CREBBP, and in particular its methylated forms, are expressed during development in vertebrates has not been addressed so far. Here, we analyzed the expression of the two crebbp genes (crebbpa & crebbpb) during zebrafish development using both RT-qPCR and in situ hybridization. We found that while crebbpa expression is higher in posterior, caudal nascent somites during somitogenesis, crebbpb accumulates in anterior, rostral, and more mature somites. In addition, crebbpa mRNA is enriched in the central myotome at 24 hpf indicating that its expression is spatially and temporally controlled. We next characterized the expression of CREBBP protein from blastula to gastrula stages by immunohistochemistry. We found that while CREBBP is clearly cytoplasmic in the early blastula, it becomes both cytoplasmic and nuclear at 30% epiboly before turning mainly nuclear during gastrulation. Of interest, CREBBP methylated species appear to be mainly nuclear from 30% epiboly to 6-somite stage. This suggests that methylation may regulate CREBBP import to the nucleus during zebrafish development and could therefore participate in the control of early developmental processes.
High-throughput sequencing technologies are widely used to analyse genomic variants or rare mutational events in different fields of genomic research, with a fast development of new or adapted platforms and technologies, enabling amplicon-based analysis of single target genes or even whole genome sequencing within a short period of time. Each sequencing platform is characterized by well-defined types of errors, resulting from different steps in the sequencing workflow. Here we describe a universal method to prepare amplicon libraries that can be used for sequencing on different high-throughput sequencing platforms. We have sequenced distinct exons of the CREB binding protein (CREBBP) gene and analysed the output resulting from three major deep-sequencing platforms. platform-specific errors were adjusted according to the result of sequence analysis from the remaining platforms. Additionally, bioinformatic methods are described to determine platform dependent errors. Summarizing the results we present a platform-independent cost-efficient and timesaving method that can be used as an alternative to commercially available sample-preparation kits.
We reported that brain (pro)renin receptor (PRR) expression levels are elevated in DOCA-salt-induced hypertension; however, the underlying mechanism remained unknown. To address whether ANG II type 1 receptor (AT1R) signaling is involved in this regulation, we implanted a DOCA pellet and supplied 0.9% saline as the drinking solution to C57BL/6J mice. Sham pellet-implanted mice that were provided regular drinking water served as controls. Concurrently, mice were intracerebroventricularly infused with the AT1R blocker losartan, angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor captopril, or artificial cerebrospinal fluid for 3 wk. Intracerebroventricular infusion of losartan or captopril attenuated DOCA-salt-induced PRR mRNA elevation in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, suggesting a role for ANG II/AT1R signaling in regulating PRR expression during DOCA-salt hypertension. To test which ANG II/AT1R downstream transcription factors were involved in PRR regulation, we treated Neuro-2A cells with ANG II with or without CREB (cAMP response element-binding protein) or AP-1 (activator protein-1) inhibitors, or CREB siRNA. CREB and AP-1 inhibitors, as well as CREB knockdown abolished ANG II-induced increases in PRR levels. ANG II also induced PRR upregulation in primary cultured neurons. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that ANG II treatment increased CREB binding to the endogenous PRR promoter in both cultured neurons and hypothalamic tissues of DOCA-salt hypertensive mice. This increase in CREB activity was reversed by AT1R blockade. Collectively, these findings indicate that ANG II acts via AT1R to upregulate PRR expression both in cultured cells and in DOCA-salt hypertensive mice by increasing CREB binding to the PRR promoter.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is one of the most common cancers worldwide and the fourth most lethal cancer in China. However, although genomic studies have identified some mutations associated with ESCC, we know little of the mutational processes responsible. To identify genome-wide mutational signatures, we performed either whole-genome sequencing (WGS) or whole-exome sequencing (WES) on 104 ESCC individuals and combined our data with those of 88 previously reported samples. An APOBEC-mediated mutational signature in 47% of 192 tumors suggests that APOBEC-catalyzed deamination provides a source of DNA damage in ESCC. Moreover, PIK3CA hotspot mutations (c.1624G>A [p.Glu542Lys] and c.1633G>A [p.Glu545Lys]) were enriched in APOBEC-signature tumors, and no smoking-associated signature was observed in ESCC. In the samples analyzed by WGS, we identified focal (<100 kb) amplifications of CBX4 and CBX8. In our combined cohort, we identified frequent inactivating mutations in AJUBA, ZNF750, and PTCH1 and the chromatin-remodeling genes CREBBP and BAP1, in addition to known mutations. Functional analyses suggest roles for several genes (CBX4, CBX8, AJUBA, and ZNF750) in ESCC. Notably, high activity of hedgehog signaling and the PI3K pathway in approximately 60% of 104 ESCC tumors indicates that therapies targeting these pathways might be particularly promising strategies for ESCC. Collectively, our data provide comprehensive insights into the mutational signatures of ESCC and identify markers for early diagnosis and potential therapeutic targets.
Critical impairment of adaptive immune response has been observed in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) with reduced expansion of regulatory T cells (Treg) and enhanced effector T-cell responsiveness, both associated with poorer outcomes.
This study investigated the mechanisms underlying T-cell dysregulation in ACS.
We evaluated both early and downstream T-cell receptor activation pathways after ex vivo stimulation with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 crosslink in CD4(+) T cells from 20 patients with non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI), 20 with stable angina (SA), and 20 controls. We reassessed 10 NSTEMI and 10 SA patients after 1 year.
Phospho-flow analysis revealed reduced phosphorylation of the zeta-chain-associated protein kinase of 70 kDa at the inhibitory residue tyrosine 292, enhancing T-cell activation, in NSTEMI helper T cells versus SA and controls (each, p < 0.001), resulting from increased expression of the protein tyrosine phosphatase, nonreceptor type, 22 (PTPN22) (p < 0.001 for both comparisons), persisting at follow-up. We also observed reduced phosphorylation (p < 0.001 versus controls) and lower levels of binding to interleukins 2 and 10 core promoter regions of the transcription factor cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein (CREB) in NSTEMI (p < 0.05 vs. controls), which recovered at 1 year. Finally, in NSTEMI patients, helper T cells had a reduced ability in T-cell receptor-induced Treg generation (p = 0.002 vs. SA; p = 0.001 vs. controls), partially recovered at 1 year. Restoring CREB activity and silencing PTPN22 enhanced NSTEMI patients' ability to generate Treg.
The persistent overexpression of PTPN22 and the transient reduction of CREB activity, associated with impaired Treg differentiation, might play a role in ACS.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is a rare, clinically heterogeneous disorder characterized by cognitive impairment and several multiple congenital anomalies. The syndrome is caused by almost private point mutations in the CREBBP (~55% of cases) and EP300 (~8%) genes. The CREBBP mutational spectrum is variegated and characterized by point mutations (30-50 %) and deletions (~10%). The latter are diverse in size and genomic position and remove either the whole CREBBP gene and its flanking regions or only an intragenic portion. Here, we report 14 novel CREBBP deletions ranging from single exons to the whole gene and flanking regions which were identified by applying complementary cytomolecular techniques: fluorescence in situ hybridization, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification and array comparative genome hybridization, to a large cohort of RSTS patients. Deletions involving CREBBP account for 23% of our detected CREBBP mutations, making an important contribution to the mutational spectrum. Genotype-phenotype correlations revealed that patients with CREBBP deletions extending beyond this gene did not always have a more severe phenotype than patients harboring CREBBP point mutations, suggesting that neighboring genes play only a limited role in the etiopathogenesis of CREBBP-centerd contiguous gene syndrome. Accordingly, the extent of the deletion is not predictive of the severity of the clinical phenotype.
Follicular lymphoma (FL) is incurable with conventional therapies and has a clinical course typified by multiple relapses after therapy. These tumors are genetically characterized by B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 2 (BCL2) translocation and mutation of genes involved in chromatin modification. By analyzing purified tumor cells, we identified additional novel recurrently mutated genes and confirmed mutations of one or more chromatin modifier genes within 96% of FL tumors and two or more in 76% of tumors. We defined the hierarchy of somatic mutations arising during tumor evolution by analyzing the phylogenetic relationship of somatic mutations across the coding genomes of 59 sequentially acquired biopsies from 22 patients. Among all somatically mutated genes, CREBBP mutations were most significantly enriched within the earliest inferable progenitor. These mutations were associated with a signature of decreased antigen presentation characterized by reduced transcript and protein abundance of MHC class II on tumor B cells, in line with the role of CREBBP in promoting class II transactivator (CIITA)-dependent transcriptional activation of these genes. CREBBP mutant B cells stimulated less proliferation of T cells in vitro compared with wild-type B cells from the same tumor. Transcriptional signatures of tumor-infiltrating T cells were indicative of reduced proliferation, and this corresponded to decreased frequencies of tumor-infiltrating CD4 helper T cells and CD8 memory cytotoxic T cells. These observations therefore implicate CREBBP mutation as an early event in FL evolution that contributes to immune evasion via decreased antigen presentation.
To understand the anti-inflammaging effect of lactic acid bacteria, we selected NF-κB activation-inhibitory Lactobacillus pentosus var. plantarum C29 and investigated its memory-enhancing and anti-inflammatory effects in aged Fischer 344 rats. C29 (2 × 10(9) CFU rat(-1) ), which was orally administered once a day (6 days per week) for 8 weeks, significantly restored age-reduced spontaneous alternation to 95.2% of that seen in young rats (P < 0.05). C29 treatment also shortened the escape latency on the 4th day to 53.8% of that seen in young rats (P < 0.05). Twenty hours after the last training session, C29 significantly increased the swimming time within the platform quadrant, which was shortened in the aged control rats. Oral administration of C29 restored age-reduced doublecortin (DCX) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression and cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) activation in aged rats. Treatment of aged rats with C29 suppressed the expression of p16, cyclooxygenase-2, and inducible nitric oxide synthase, as well as the activation of Akt, mTOR, and NF-κB in the hippocampus. These findings suggest that C29 ameliorates ageing-dependent memory impairment by inhibiting NF-κB signalling pathway, inducing DCX and BDNF expression and activating CREB.
The anti-inflammatory Lactobacillus pentosus var. plantarum C29 had the memory-enhancing effect in aged Fischer 344 rats by restoring doublecortin and brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression and suppressing p16 expression and NF-κB activation in the brain. Therefore, C29 may be useful in ameliorating age-related degenerative dementia.
Understanding the mechanism of action of the yessotoxin (YTX) is crucial since this drug has potential pharmacological effects in allergic processes, tumor proliferation and neurodegenerative diseases. It has been described that YTX activates apoptosis after 24h of treatment, while after 48 h of incubation with the toxin a decrease in cell viability corresponding to cellular differentiation or non-apoptotic cell death was observed. In this paper, these processes were extensively studied by using the erythroleukemia K-562 cell line. On one hand, events of K-562 cell differentiation into erythrocytes after YTX treatment were studied using hemin as positive control of cell differentiation. Cell differentiation was studied through the cyclic nucleotide response element binding (phospho-CREB) and the transferrin receptor (TfR) expression. On the other hand, using rapamycin as positive control, autophagic hallmarks, as non-apoptotic cell death, were studied after toxin exposure. In this case, the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) and light chain 3B (LC3B) levels were measured to check autophagy activation. The results showed that cell differentiation was not occurring after 48 h of toxin incubation while at this time the autophagy was triggered. Furthermore after 24h of toxin treatment none of these processes were activated. In addition, the role of the type 4A phosphodiesterase (PDE4A), the intracellular target of YTX, was checked. PDE4A-silencing experiments showed different regulation steps of PDE4A in the autophagic processes triggered either by traditional compounds or YTX. In summary, after 48 h YTX treatment PDE4A-dependent autophagy, as non-apoptotic programmed cell death, is activated.
p21-activated kinase 4 (PAK4) regulates a wide range of cellular events, including cytoskeletal remodeling, cell growth, and survival. Our previous study identified PAK4 as a key regulator of cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) that acts upstream of microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF), a master transcription factor in melanogenesis. We therefore investigated the role of PAK4 in melanogenesis. Melanocytes express both PAK2 and PAK4 isoforms, but only RNA interference knockdown of PAK4 significantly influenced α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (α-MSH)-induced melanogenesis in B16 melanoma cells. Consistent with this result, PAK4 inhibition by PF3758309, a potent ATP-competitive inhibitor of PAKs, suppressed not only α-MSH-induced melanogenesis in B16 melanoma and human epithelial melanocyte cells but also UVB-induced melanogenesis in the skin of melanin-possessing hairless mice (HRM-2) in a dose-dependent manner. Inhibition of PAK4 over several days markedly decreased the levels of CREB, MITF, and tyrosinase in both HRM-2 mice and B16 melanoma cells. Moreover, PAK4 knockdown and inhibition suppressed α-MSH-stimulated β-catenin phosphorylation at serine 675 (S675) but enhanced phosphorylation at S33/37, an indicator for ubiquitination-dependent proteolysis. Together, our results provide evidence that PAK4 promotes α-MSH/UVB-induced melanogenesis via the CREB and Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathways and suggest that PAK4 may be a potential therapeutic target in pigmentation disorders.
The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) N-terminal domain (NTD) contains a transactivation domain (activation function 1; AF-1). GR AF-1 is phosphorylated, but effects of this modification upon AF-1 activity and cofactor recruitment are not completely clear. GR AF-1 activity is mostly confined to a short unstructured domain called tau1c (amino acids 187-244) that contains three phosphorylation sites and binds a short cysteine rich fragment (CH3) of the coactivator CREB binding protein (CBP). Since the CH3 domain overlaps the CBP transcriptional adaptor zinc binding (TAZ) 2 domain, implicated in phosphorylation dependent binding to other unstructured transcription factor domains, we set out to investigate whether GR interacts with TAZ2 and whether this binding event is modulated by phosphorylation. We find that GR tau1c is absolutely required for enhancement of GR function and GR/CBP association in cultured cells. Tau1c interacts with TAZ2 in vitro and peptide mapping reveals CBP binding determinants throughout tau1c. Phosphorylation at GR Ser203, not involved in transactivation, does not affect tau1c/TAZ2 interactions. However, phosphorylation at Ser211 and Ser226, markers of GR transcriptional activity, greatly enhances TAZ2 binding in a synergistic fashion. We propose that GR tau1c phosphorylation could promote CBP recruitment and enhance AF-1 activity.
Paraplegia remains a devastating complication of complex aortic surgery. Erythropoietin (EPO) has been shown to prevent paraplegia after ischemia reperfusion, but the protective mechanism remains poorly described in the spinal cord. We hypothesized that EPO induces the CREB (cAMP [adenosine 3'5' cyclic monophosphate] response element-binding protein) pathway and neurotrophin production in the murine spinal cord, attenuating functional and cellular injury.
Adult male mice were subjected to 4 minutes of spinal cord ischemia via an aortic and left subclavian cross-clamp. Experimental groups included EPO treatment 4 hours before incision (n = 7), ischemic control (n = 7), and shams (n = 4). Hind-limb function was assessed using the Basso motor score for 48 hours after reperfusion. Spinal cords were harvested and analyzed for neuronal viability using histology and staining with a fluorescein derivative. Expression of phosphorylated (p)AKT (a serine/threonine-specific kinase), pCREB, B-cell lymphoma 2, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor were determined using immunoblotting.
By 36 hours of reperfusion, EPO significantly preserved hind-limb function after ischemia-reperfusion injury (P < .01). Histology demonstrated preserved cytoarchitecture in the EPO treatment group. Cords treated with EPO expressed significant increases in pAKT (P = .021) and pCREB (P = .038). Treatment with EPO induced expression of both of the neurotrophins, B-cell lymphoma 2, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, beginning at 12 hours.
Erythropoietin-mediated induction of the CREB pathway and production of neurotrophins is associated with improved neurologic function and increased neuronal viability following spinal cord ischemia reperfusion. Further elucidation of EPO-derived neuroprotection will allow for expansion of adjunct mechanisms for spinal cord protection in high-risk thoracoabdominal aortic intervention.
To investigate the clinical and genetic features of 2 patients with Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome.
Using next generation sequencing (NGS) the CREBBP and EP300 genes of 2 children who were diagnosed as Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome at Peking Union Medical College Hospital. The mutations identified by NGS were verified by PCR were analyzed.
The 2 patients at the age of 5 months and 4.5 years manifested short stature (the height were 60 cm and 99 cm respectively), low hairline, thick and dense hair and eyebrows, long lash, epicanthus of both eyes, protruded supercilliary arch, broad and flat thumbs and halluces, and particular facial abnormalities. Patient 2 had language retardation besides. One missense mutation of c.3535A>G, p.Ser1179Gly was found in CREBBP gene in patient 1 and one microdeletion mutation of c.4995_4999delCGCCT, p. Ala1666Pro fs66x was found inpatient 2. Both mutations were reported for the first time.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome is characterized by mental and growth retardation, wide and flat thumbs and first toes, and dysmorphic facial features. CREBBP is one of the causative genes. Mutation detection on CREBBP gene can confirm the diagnosis of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome.
Alterations in cytoarchitecture and molecular signaling have been observed in adaptive and maladaptive responses to stress and presumably underlie the physiological and behavioral changes observed. The relationship between behavioral responses to stress exposure and changes in cytoarchitecture of subregions of the hippocampus and amygdala was investigated in an animal model of PTSD. Behaviors in elevated plus-maze and acoustic startle response tests were assessed in rats 7 days after exposure to predator scent stress. Brains were harvested 24h later. Neurons from CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus subregions and basolateral amygdala were reconstructed and subjected to Sholl analysis and spine density estimation. Glucocorticoid receptor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, phospho-NR1-Ser-889, phospho-GluR1-Ser-845, phospho-calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II-Thy-286, post-synaptic density protein 95 and phospho-CREB-Ser-133 were evaluated in the hippocampus. Data were analyzed by retrospective classification of individual rats into three behavioral response groups. The extent and distribution of changes in the morphology of hippocampal and amygdalar dendrites was significantly associated with stress-induced behavioral response classification. Extreme (PTSD-like) behavioral disruption was associated with extensive neuronal retraction in the hippocampus and proliferation in the amygdala. Neither structure displayed such changes in minimal behavioral responders. Partial behavioral response was associated with identical changes in the hippocampus only. Patterns of change in requisite molecular signaling genes and endophenotypic markers corresponded to the structural and behavioral responses. The extent and distribution of changes in the cytoarchitecture of hippocampal and amygdalar subregions is directly related to the pattern of behavioral response of the individual to stress exposure.
The genetic basis of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS), a rare, sporadic, clinically heterogeneous disorder characterized by cognitive impairment and a wide spectrum of multiple congenital anomalies, is primarily due to private mutations in CREBBP (approximately 55% of cases) or EP300 (approximately 8% of cases). Herein, we report the clinical and the genetic data taken from a cohort of 46 RSTS patients, all carriers of CREBBP point mutations. Molecular analysis revealed 45 different gene alterations including 31 inactivating (21 frameshift and 10 nonsense), 10 missense and 4 splicing mutations. Bioinformatic tools and transcript analyses were used to predict the functional effects of missense and splicing alterations. Of the 45 mutations, 42 are unreported and 3 were described previously. Recurrent mutations maybe a key tool in addressing genotype-phenotype correlations in patients sharing the same defects (at the genomic or transcript level) and specific clinical signs, demonstrated here in two cases. The clinical data of our cohort evidenced frequent signs such as arched eyebrows, epicanthus, synophrys and/or frontal hypertrichosis and broad phalanges that, previously overlooked in RSTS diagnosis, now could be considered. Some suggested correlations between organ-specific anomalies and affected CREB-binding protein domains broaden the RSTS clinical spectrum and perhaps will enhance patient follow-up and clinical care.
It has recently been proposed that extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) are one of the factors mediating seizure development. We hypothesized that inhibition of ERK1/2 activity could prevent audiogenic seizures by altering GABA and glutamate release mechanisms. Krushinsky-Molodkina rats, genetically prone to audiogenic seizure, were recruited in the experiments. Animals were i.p. injected with an inhibitor of ERK1/2 SL 327 at different doses 60 min before audio stimulation. We demonstrated for the first time that inhibition of ERK1/2 activity by SL 327 injections prevented seizure behavior and this effect was dose-dependent and correlated with ERK1/2 activity. The obtained data also demonstrated unchanged levels of GABA production, and an increase in the level of vesicular glutamate transporter 2. The study of exocytosis protein expression showed that SL 327 treatment leads to downregulation of vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 and synapsin I, and accumulation of synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP-25). The obtained data indicate that the inhibition of ERK1/2 blocks seizure behavior presumably by altering the exocytosis machinery, and identifies ERK1/2 as a potential target for the development of new strategies for seizure treatment. Extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) are one of the factors mediating seizure development. Here we report that inhibition of ERK1/2 by SL 327 prevented seizure behavior and this effect was dose-dependent and correlated with ERK1/2 activity. Accumulation of VGLUT2 was associated with differential changing of synaptic proteins VAMP2, SNAP-25 and synapsin I. The obtained data indicate that the inhibition of ERK1/2 alters neurotransmitter release by changing the exocytosis machinery, thus preventing seizures.
Determining how histone acetylation is regulated is vital for treating the many diseases associated with its misregulation, including heart disease, neurological disorders, and cancer. We have previously reported that acetyl-CoA levels alter p300 histone acetylation in a site-specific manner in vitro. Here, we further investigate how changing acetyl-CoA concentrations alter the histone acetylation pattern by altering p300 specificity. Interestingly, these changes are not a simple global change in acetylation, but rather site specific changes, whereby acetylation at some sites increase while others decrease. We also demonstrate how the p300 inhibitor C646 can pharmacologically alter p300 histone acetylation patterns in vitro and in cells. This study provides insight into the mechanisms regulating p300 residue specificity, a potential means for altering p300 dependent histone acetylation, and an investigation into altering histone acetylation patterns in cells.
Replica exchange molecular dynamics simulations are performed on the protein complex pKID-KIX to understand the effects of macromolecular crowding on coupled folding and binding events. A structure-based protein model at the residue level is adopted for the two proteins to include intramolecular conformational flexibility, while crowding macromolecules are represented as spherical particles. The interactions between crowders and protein residues can be either purely repulsive or a combination of short-range repulsion and intermediate-range attraction. Consistent with previous studies on rigid-body protein binding in the presence of spherical crowders, we find that the complex formation is stabilized by repulsive protein-crowder interactions and destabilized by sufficiently strong attractive protein-crowder interactions. Competition between stabilizing repulsive and destabilizing attractive interactions is quantitatively captured by a previous theoretical model developed for describing the change in the binding free energy of rigid proteins in a crowded environment. We find that protein flexibility has little effect on the thermodynamics of the pKID-KIX binding (with respect to bulk) for repulsive and weakly attractive protein-crowder interactions. For strong protein-crowder attractive interactions, the destabilizing effect due to crowding is attenuated by protein flexibility. Interestingly, the mechanism of coupled folding and binding observed in bulk remains unchanged under highly crowded conditions over a broad range of protein-crowder interaction strengths. Also, strong protein-crowder attractive interactions can significantly stabilize intermediate states involving partial contact between pKID and KIX domains.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is one of the neurodevelopmental disorders caused by mutations of epigenetic genes. The CREBBP gene is the most common causative gene, encoding the CREB-binding protein with histone acetyltransferase (HAT) activity, an epigenetic modulator. To date, there have been few reports on the structural abnormalities of the brain in RSTS patients. In addition, there are no reports on the analysis of CREBBP mutations in Korean RSTS patients.
We performed mutational analyses on 16 unrelated patients with RSTS, with diagnosis based on the typical clinical features. Their medical records and brain MRI images were reviewed retrospectively.
Ten of 16 patients (62.5%) had mutations in the CREBBP gene. The mutations included five frameshift mutations (31.2%), two nonsense mutations (12.5%), and three multiexon deletions (18.8%). There were no remarkable significant differences in the clinical features between those with and without a CREBBP mutation, although brain MRI abnormalities were more frequently observed in those with a CREBBP mutation. Seven of 10 patients in whom brain imaging was performed had structural abnormalities, including Chiari malformation type 1, thinning of the corpus callosum, and delayed myelination. There were no differences in delayed development or cognitive impairment between those with and without abnormal brain images, while epilepsy was involved in two patients who had abnormalities on brain MRI images.
We investigated the spectrum of CREBBP mutations in Korean patients with RSTS for the first time. Eight novel mutations extended the genetic spectrum of CREBBP mutations in RSTS patients. This is also the first study showing the prevalence and spectrum of abnormalities on brain MRI in RSTS patients.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is a rare congenital neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by postnatal growth deficiency, skeletal abnormalities, dysmorphic features and cognitive deficit. Mutations in two genes, CREBBP and EP300, encoding two homologous transcriptional co-activators, have been identified in ˜55% and ˜3-5% of affected individuals, respectively. To date, only eight EP300-mutated RSTS patients have been described and 12 additional mutations are reported in the database LOVD. In this study, EP300 analysis was performed on 33 CREBBP-negative RSTS patients leading to the identification of six unreported germline EP300 alterations comprising one deletion and five point mutations. All six patients showed a convincing, albeit mild, RSTS phenotype with minor skeletal anomalies, slight cognitive impairment and few major malformations. Beyond the expansion of the RSTS-EP300-mutated cohort, this study indicates that EP300-related RSTS cases occur more frequently than previously thought (˜8% vs 3-5%); furthermore, the characterization of novel EP300 mutations in RSTS patients will enhance the clinical practice and genotype-phenotype correlations.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder with multiple congenital anomalies and genetic heterogeneity. Clinical manifestations include mental retardation, postnatal growth deficiency, microcephaly, broad thumbs and halluces, and characteristic facial features. Mutations in the gene encoding the transcriptional coactivator CREB-binding protein (CREBBP; OMIM 600140) on chromosome 16p13, account for about 50% to 70% of patients. Most of CREBBP mutations are de novo and the rate of recurrence in a family is low. Families with several affected children are extremely rare. We report here a Moroccan family with two children with RSTS and apparently unaffected parents. The molecular studies showed a heterozygous mutation c.4361T>A (p.Leu1454His) in exon 26 of the CREBBP gene in the two affected siblings. Neither the parents, nor the healthy brother, carry this mutation in hematologic cells. The mutation was also absent in buccal epithelial cells of both parents. We discuss the hypothesis of germinal mosaicism. This concept is very important because it complicates genetic counseling of this family who has a risk of recurrence of the mutation in subsequent pregnancies.
We report a girl with Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) who was found to have copy number loss on 16p13.3 by array-CGH. She has developmental delay and other features of RSTS including downslanting palpebral fissures, a prominent nose with the nasal septum extending below the alae nasi, broad thumbs and big toes, postaxial polydactyly of the right foot and constipation from birth. We report the junction sequence across the breakpoint region for a microdeletion in RSTS. The sequencing results also showed that the deletion was 81.4kb involving three genes DNASE 1, TRAP 1, and CREBBP.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is a congenital neurodevelopmental disorder defined by postnatal growth deficiency, characteristic skeletal abnormalities and mental retardation and caused by mutations in the genes encoding for the transcriptional co-activators with intrinsic lysine acetyltransferase (KAT) activity CBP and p300. Previous studies have shown that neuronal histone acetylation is reduced in mouse models of RSTS.
The authors identified different mutations at the CREBBP locus and generated lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from nine patients with RSTS carrying distinct CREBBP mutations that illustrate different grades of the clinical severity in the spectrum of the syndrome. They next assessed whether histone acetylation levels were altered in these cell lines.
The comparison of CREBBP-mutated RSTS cell lines with cell lines derived from patients with an unrelated mental retardation syndrome or healthy controls revealed significant deficits in histone acetylation, affecting primarily histone H2B and histone H2A. The most severe defects were observed in the lines carrying the whole deletion of the CREBBP gene and the truncating mutation, both leading to a haploinsufficiency state. Interestingly, this deficit was rescued by treatment with an inhibitor of histone deacetylases (HDACi).
The authors' results extend to humans the seminal observations in RSTS mouse models and point to histone acetylation defects, mainly involving H2B and H2A, as relevant molecular markers of the disease.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is an inheritable disease associated with mutations in the gene encoding the CREB (cAMP response element-binding protein)-binding protein (CBP) and characterized by growth impairment, learning disabilities, and distinctive facial and skeletal features. Studies in mouse models for RSTS first suggested a direct role for CBP and histone acetylation in cognition and memory. Here, we took advantage of the genetic tools for generating mice in which the CBP gene is specifically deleted in postmitotic principal neurons of the forebrain to investigate the consequences of the loss of CBP in the adult brain. In contrast to the conventional CBP knock-out mice, which exhibit very early embryonic lethality, postnatal forebrain-restricted CBP mutants were viable and displayed no overt abnormalities. We identified the dimer of histones H2A and H2B as the preferred substrate of the histone acetyltransferase domain of CBP. Surprisingly, the loss of CBP and subsequent histone hypoacetylation had a very modest impact in the expression of a number of immediate early genes and did not affect neuronal viability. In addition, the behavioral characterization of these mice dissociated embryonic and postnatal deficits caused by impaired CBP function, narrowed down the anatomical substrate of specific behavioral defects, and confirmed the special sensitivity of object recognition memory to CBP deficiency. Overall, our study provides novel insights into RSTS etiology and clarifies some of the standing questions concerning the role of CBP and histone acetylation in activity-driven gene expression, memory formation, and neurodegeneration.
We demonstrate the utility of an exon coverage microarray platform in detecting intragenic deletions: one in exons 24-27 of the EP300 gene and another in exons 27 and 28 of the CREBBP gene in two patients with Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS). RSTS is a heterogeneous disorder in which approximately 45-55% of cases result from deletion or mutations in the CREBBP gene and an unknown portion of cases result from gene changes in EP300. The first case is a 3-year-old female with an exonic deletion of the EP300 gene who has classic facial features of RSTS without the thumb and great toe anomalies, consistent with the milder skeletal phenotype that has been described in other RSTS cases with EP300 mutations. In addition, the mother of this patient also had preeclampsia during pregnancy, which has been infrequently reported. The second case is a newborn male who has the classical features of RSTS. Our results illustrate that exon-targeted array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) is a powerful tool for detecting clinically significant intragenic rearrangements that would be otherwise missed by aCGH platforms lacking sufficient exonic coverage or sequencing of the gene of interest.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS), a developmental disorder comprising abnormalities that include mental retardation, an unusual facial appearance, broad thumbs and big toes is frequently associated with molecular lesions in the CREB-binding protein gene, CREBBP. The objective of the present study was to identify and analyse CREBBP mutations in Indian RSTS patients on which there are no data. Direct sequencing of CREBBP performed in 13 RSTS patients identified the three zinc fingers (CH1, CH2, CH3) and HAT domain as mutational hotspots in which ten novel pathogenic mutations were localized. Functional analysis revealed that three of these mutations affecting amino acids Glu1459, Leu1668 and Glu1724 were critical for histone acetyltransferase activity. Twenty-eight novel CREBBP single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were also identified in the Indian population. Linkage disequilibrium studies revealed associations between (i) SNP (rs129974/c.3836-206G greater than C) and mutation (p.Asp1340Ala); (ii) (rs130002) with mutation (p.Asn435Lys) and (iii) SNPs rs129974, rs130002 and SNP (c.3836-206G greater than C) signifying a disease affection status. In conclusion, the present study reports the highest detection rate of CREBBP mutations (76.9%) in RSTS patients to date, of which ten are predicted to be pathogenic and three critical for histone acetyltransferase activity. Moreover, identification of the association of CREBBP polymorphisms with disease susceptibility could be an important risk factor for the pathogenesis of RSTS.
Biallelic inactivation of the CREB-binding protein (CREBBP) a transcriptional co-activator produces an embryonic lethal phenotype in mice. In humans, re-arrangements in CREBBP are associated with the Rubinstein-Taybi Syndrome (RSTS) that is characterised by craniofacial, skeletal and neuronal symptoms. Neuronal defects in RSTS can be attributed to genetic re-arrangements in CREBBP, which has been implicated in synaptic plasticity and long-term memory. The present study was designed to investigate the role of CREBBP re-arrangements during neuronal differentiation. Towards this, deletion constructs of pCREBBP, viz. pDeltaCB-HAT and pDeltaHAT-CT were generated and transfected into NT2 cells. Expression profiling of the components of Notch, Wnt, SHH and Retinoid signaling along with screening of the neuronal markers was carried out in the NT2 cells and their mutant derivatives. ChIP-PCRs along with co-immunoprecipitations were also performed in these cells to investigate defects due to inappropriate interaction of mutated CREEBP with the corresponding transcription factor and other transcription regulatory proteins both at steady state as well as during differentiation. Mutant NT2 cells lacking the CREB, BROMO and HAT domains (CB-HAT) were highly proliferative and showed limited differentiation; while mutant NT2 cells expressing CREBBP lacking the HAT and CTAD domains (HAT-CT) are proliferation deficient and differentiate rapidly albeit generating an insufficient number of neurons. Altered CREBBP structure resulted in changes in HAT activity, cell cycle profiles and expression of basal levels of components of Notch, SHH, Wnt and retinoid pathways known to be critical in the proliferation and differentiation of neuronal progenitors. At the chromatin level, aberrant signaling correlated with altered binding affinities of the (CREBBP-transcription factor) complexes to promoter regions of components of these pathways. Thus, differentiation defects are manifested early at the genomic level leading to aberrant transcription of the genes involved in differentiation along the neuronal lineage.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterised by facial dysmorphisms, growth and psychomotor development delay, and skeletal defects. The known genetic causes are point mutations or deletions of the CREBBP (50-60%) and EP300 (5%) genes. To detect chromosomal rearrangements indicating novel positional candidate RSTS genes, we used a-CGH to study 26 patients fulfilling the diagnostic criteria for RSTS who were negative at fluorescence in situ hybridisation analyses of the CREBBP and EP300 regions, and direct sequencing analyses of the CREBBP gene. We found seven imbalances (27%): four de novo and three inherited rearrangements not reported among the copy number variants. A de novo 7p21.1 deletion of 500 kb included the TWIST1 gene, a suggested candidate for RSTS that is responsible for the Saethre-Chotzen syndrome, an entity that enters in differential diagnosis with RSTS. A similar issue of differential diagnosis was raised by a large 4.3 Mb 2q22.3q23.1 deletion encompassing ZEB2, the gene responsible for the Mowat-Wilson syndrome, whose signs may overlap with RSTS. Positional candidate genes could not be sought in the remaining pathogenetic imbalances, because of the size of the involved region (a 9 Mb 2q24.3q31.1 deletion) and/or the relative paucity of suitable genes (a 5 Mb 3p13p12.3 duplication). One of the inherited rearrangements, the 17q11.2 379Kb duplication, represents the reciprocal event of the deletion underlying an overgrowth syndrome, both being mediated by the NF1-REP-P1 and REP-P2 sub-duplicons. The contribution of this and the other detected CNVs to the clinical RSTS phenotype is difficult to assess.
Rubinstein-Taybi Syndrome (RSTS, OMIM 180849) is a rare condition, which in 65% of cases is caused by haploinsufficiency of CREBBP (cAMP response element binding protein binding protein) localized to 16p13.3. A small subset of RSTS cases caused by 16p13.3 microdeletions involving neighboring genes have been recently suggested to be a true contiguous gene syndrome called severe RSTS or 16p13.3 deletion syndrome (OMIM 610543). In the present report, we describe a case of a 2-year-old female with RSTS who, besides most of the typical features of RSTS has corpus callosum dysgenesis and a Chiari type I malformation which required neurosurgical decompression. CGH microarray showed a approximately 520.7 kb microdeletion on 16p13.3 involving CREBBP, ADCY9, and SRL genes. We hypothesize that the manifestations in this patient might be influenced by the haploinsufficiency for ADCY9 and SRL.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is a complex autosomal-dominant disease characterized by mental and growth retardation and skeletal abnormalities. A majority of the individuals diagnosed with RSTS carry heterozygous mutation in the gene CREBBP, but a small percentage of cases are caused by mutations in EP300. To investigate the contribution of p300 to RSTS pathoetiology, we carried out a comprehensive and multidisciplinary characterization of p300(+/-) mice. These mice exhibited facial abnormalities and impaired growth, two traits associated to RSTS in humans. We also observed abnormal gait, reduced swimming speed, enhanced anxiety in the elevated plus maze, and mild cognitive impairment during the transfer task in the water maze. These analyses demonstrate that p300(+/-) mice exhibit phenotypes that are reminiscent of neurological traits observed in RSTS patients, but their comparison with previous studies on CBP deficient strains also indicates that, in agreement with the most recent findings in human patients, the activity of p300 in cognition is likely less relevant or more susceptible to compensation than the activity of CBP.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is a rare autosomal dominant genetic disease and is characterized by mental retardation, distinctive facial features, broad and often angulated thumbs and great toes, short stature, and growth retardation. CREBBP and EP300 are the only genes currently known to be associated with RSTS. Mutations in CREBBP and EP300 were identified in approximately 50% and 3% of RSTS patients, respectively. To date, most of CREBBP mutations were de novo mutations and the recurrence rate in a family was low. Families with more than one affected child are extremely rare. In this study, we have shown a family with two affected siblings; the same mutation was found in both siblings. However, the mutation was not found in the blood or saliva DNA samples from the parents, suggesting the mechanism of germ-line mosaicism. In addition, we identified low-level mosaicism of a CREBBP mutation in the father from a second family with one affected child. Among the three analyzed tissue samples from the father, low-level mosaicism is present only significantly in the blood sample. We hypothesize mutations in CREBBP in these two families occur in the postzygotic stage in one of the parents (one generation ahead) of the affected individual. Additional family studies are required to determine how common somatic and/or gonadal mosaicism is present in RSTS patients.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is a heterogeneous disorder with approximately 45-55% of patients showing mutations in the CREB binding protein and a further 3% of patients having mutations in EP300. We report a male child with a deletion of exons 3-8 of the EP300 gene who has RSTS. He has a milder skeletal phenotype, a finding that has been described in other cases with EP300 mutations. The mother suffered from pre-eclampsia and HELLP syndrome in the pregnancy. She subsequently developed a mullerian tumor of her cervix 6 years after the birth of her son.
We report on a six-year-old boy with typical Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) phenotype. Clinical findings included mental and motor retardation, patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), undescended testes, hirsutism, broad thumbs with radial angulation and broad toes, and inguinal hernia. His karyotype was normal (46, XY) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) showed no deletion of the CREBBP [cAMP response element-binding (CREB) binding protein] gene on chromosome 16p13.3. CREBBP gene sequencing also revealed normal results. We wish to present this case because this patient had typical RSTS phenotype, but normal FISH and CREBBP gene sequencing results. It could be possible that genetic heterogeneity is related with novel mutations in other genes. With the publication of such cases, their significance will be brought to the attention of researchers in this field.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is a rare malformation disorder caused by mutations in the closely related CREBBP and EP300 genes, accounting respectively for up to 60 and 3% of cases. About 10% of CREBBP mutations are whole gene deletions often extending into flanking regions. Using FISH and microsatellite analyses as a first step in the CREBBP mutation screening of 42 Italian RSTS patients, we identified six deletions, three of which were in a mosaic condition that has not been previously reported in RSTS. The use of region-specific BAC clones and small CREBBP probes allowed us to assess the extent of all of the deletions by mapping their endpoints to genomic intervals of 5-10 kb. Four of our five intragenic breakpoints cluster at the 5' end of CREBBP, where there is a peak of breakpoints underlying rearrangements in RSTS patients and tumors. The search for genomic motifs did not reveal any low-copy repeats (LCRs) or any greater density of repetitive sequences. In contrast, the percentage of interspersed repetitive elements (mainly Alu and LINEs in the CREBBP exon 2 region) is significantly higher than that in the entire gene or the average in the genome, thus suggesting that this characteristic may be involved in the region's vulnerability to breaking and nonhomologous pairing. The FISH analysis extended to the EP300 genomic region did not reveal any deletions. The clinical presentation was typical in all cases, but more severe in the three patients carrying constitutional deletions, raising a question about the possible underdiagnosis of a few cases of mild RSTS.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is a congenital disorder characterised by growth retardation, facial dysmorphisms, skeletal abnormalities and mental retardation. Broad thumbs and halluces are the hallmarks of the syndrome. RSTS is associated with chromosomal rearrangements and mutations in the CREB-binding protein gene (CREBBP), also termed CBP, encoding the CREB-binding protein. Recently, it was shown that mutations in EP300, coding for the p300 protein, also cause RSTS. CBP and EP300 are highly homologous genes, which play important roles as global transcriptional coactivators.
To report the phenotype of the presently known patients with RSTS (n = 4) carrying germline mutations of EP300.
The patients with EP300 mutations displayed the typical facial gestalt and malformation pattern compatible with the diagnosis of RSTS. However, three patients exhibited much milder skeletal findings on the hands and feet than typically observed in patients with RSTS.
Part of the clinical variability in RSTS is explained by genetic heterogeneity. The diagnosis of RSTS must be expanded to include patients without broad thumbs or halluces.
Rubinstein-Taybi Syndrome (RSTS, MIM 180849) is a rare congenital disorder characterized by mental and growth retardation, broad and duplicated distal phalanges of thumbs and halluces, facial dysmorphisms and increased risk of tumors. RSTS is caused by chromosomal rearrangements and point mutations in one copy of the CREB-binding protein gene (CREBBP or CBP) in 16p13.3. To date mutations in CREBBP have been reported in 56.6% of RSTS patients and an average figure of 10% has ascribed to deletions.
Our study is based on the mutation analysis of CREBBP in 31 Italian RSTS patients using segregation analysis of intragenic microsatellites, BAC FISH and direct sequencing of PCR and RT-PCR fragments.
We identified a total of five deletions, two of the entire gene and three, all in a mosaic condition, involving either the 5' or the 3' region. By direct sequencing a total of 14 de novo mutations were identified: 10 truncating (5 frameshift and 5 nonsense), one splice site, and three novel missense mutations. Two of the latter affect the HAT domain, while one maps within the conserved nuclear receptor binding of (aa 1-170) and will probably destroy a Nuclear Localization Signal. Identification of the p.Asn1978Ser in the healthy mother of a patient also carrying a de novo frameshift mutation, questions the pathogenetic significance of the missense change reported as recurrent mutation. Thirteen additional polymorphisms, three as of yet unreported, were also detected.
A high detection rate (61.3%) of mutations is confirmed by this Italian study which also attests one of the highest microdeletion rate (16%) documented so far.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is a rare condition with a prevalence of 1 in 125,000-720,000 births and characterized by clinical features that include facial, dental, and limb dysmorphology and growth retardation. Most cases of RSTS occur sporadically and are caused by de novo mutations. Cytogenetic or molecular abnormalities are detected in only 55% of RSTS cases. Previous genetic studies have yielded inconsistent results due to the variety of methods used for genetic analysis. The purpose of this study was to use whole exome sequencing (WES) to evaluate the genetic causes of RSTS in a young girl presenting with an Autism phenotype. We used the Autism diagnostic observation schedule (ADOS) and Autism diagnostic interview revised (ADI-R) to confirm her diagnosis of Autism. In addition, various questionnaires were used to evaluate other psychiatric features. We used WES to analyze the DNA sequences of the patient and her parents and to search for de novo variants. The patient showed all the typical features of Autism, WES revealed a de novo frameshift mutation in CREBBP and de novo sequence variants in TNC and IGFALS genes. Mutations in the CREBBP gene have been extensively reported in RSTS patients, while potential missense mutations in TNC and IGFALS genes have not previously been associated with RSTS. The TNC and IGFALS genes are involved in central nervous system development and growth. It is possible for patients with RSTS to have additional de novo variants that could account for previously unexplained phenotypes.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) can be caused by heterozygous mutations or deletions involving CREBBP or, less commonly, EP300. To date, only 15 patients with EP300 mutations have been clinically described. Frequently reported manifestations in these patients include characteristic facial and limb features, varying degrees of neurocognitive dysfunction, and maternal preeclampsia. Other congenital anomalies are less frequently reported. We describe a child found to have a de novo EP300 mutation (c.4933C>T, predicted to result in p.Arg1645X) through research-based whole-genome sequencing of the family trio. The child's presentation involved dysmorphic features as well as unilateral renal agenesis, a myelomeningocele, and minor genitourinary anomalies. The involvement of congenital anomalies in all 16 clinically described patients with EP300 mutations (25% of which have been identified by "hypothesis free" methods, including microarray, exome, and whole-genome sequencing) is reviewed. In summary, genitourinary anomalies have been identified in 38%, cardiovascular anomalies in 25%, spinal/vertebral anomalies in 19%, other skeletal anomalies in 19%, brain anomalies in 13%, and renal anomalies in 6%. Our patient expands the phenotypic spectrum in EP300-related RSTS; this case demonstrates the evolving practice of clinical genomics related to increasing availability of genomic sequencing methods.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is an extremely rare autosomal dominant genetic disease, with an estimated prevalence of one case per 125,000 live births. RSTS is characterized by typical facial features, microcephaly, broad thumbs and first toes, intellectual disability, and postnatal growth retardation. However, no standard diagnostic criteria are available for RSTS. In this review, we summarized the clinical features and genetic basis of RSTS and highlighted areas for future studies on an appropriate diagnostic protocol and follow-up care for RSTS.
RSTS is primarily characterized by delayed growth in height and weight, microcephaly, dysmorphic facial features, and broad thumbs and big toe. Over 90% RSTS individuals with disabilities survive to adulthood, but healthcare for these patients is particularly complex, time-consuming, and costly. In addition, no standard diagnostic criteria and follow-up care guidelines are available for RSTS. It has been shown that mutations in the genes encoding the cyclic-AMP-regulated enhancer binding protein (CREBBP) and the E1A-binding protein p300 (EP300) contributed to the development of RSTS. Therefore, genetic tests are useful for the diagnosis of RSTS, although most RSTS cases are currently diagnosed based on clinical features. The clinical features of RSTS have been extensively studied, which significantly contributes to the diagnosis of this extremely rare syndrome. However, the pathogenesis and genotype-phenotype associations of RSTS are largely unknown. Therefore, multicenter studies and international cooperation are highlighted for better understanding of this disease, establishing standard diagnostic criteria, and providing professional management and follow-up care of RSTS.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is characterized by distinctive facial features, broad and often angulated thumbs and great toes, short stature, and moderate to severe intellectual disability. The characteristic craniofacial features are downslanted palpebral fissures, low hanging columella, high palate, grimacing smile, and talon cusps. Prenatal growth is often normal; however, height, weight, and head circumference percentiles rapidly drop in the first few months of life. Obesity may occur in childhood or adolescence. IQ scores range from 25 to 79; average IQ is between 36 and 51. Other variable findings are coloboma, cataract, congenital heart defects, renal abnormalities, and cryptorchidism.
The diagnosis of RSTS is primarily based on clinical features. Chromosome abnormalities are occasionally observed on routine cytogenetic testing. CREBBP and EP300 are the only genes currently known to be associated with RSTS. FISH analysis of CREBBP detects microdeletions in approximately 10% of individuals with RSTS. Sequence analysis detects CREBBP pathogenic variants in another 40%-50% of affected individuals. Pathogenic variants in EP300 are identified in approximately 3%-8% of individuals with RSTS.
Treatment of manifestations: Early intervention programs, special education, vocational training to address developmental disabilities, and referral to behavioral specialists/psychologists and support groups/resources for family members; standard treatment for eye abnormalities, hearing loss, cardiac defects, cryptorchidism, and sleep apnea; surgical repair of significantly angulated thumbs or duplicated halluces; aggressive management of gastroesophageal reflux and constipation. Surveillance: Monitoring of growth and feeding, especially in the first year of life; annual eye and hearing evaluations; and routine monitoring for cardiac, dental, and renal anomalies.
RSTS is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. RSTS typically occurs as the result of a de novo mutation in the family; most individuals represent simplex cases (i.e., the only affected member in a family). In most instances, the parents of an individual with RSTS are not affected. When the parents are clinically unaffected, the empiric recurrence risk for sibs is less than 1%. Individuals with RSTS rarely reproduce. The risk to offspring is 50%. Prenatal testing for pregnancies at increased risk is possible if the pathogenic variant or deletion in the family is known.
Congenital cognitive dysfunctions are frequently due to deficits in molecular pathways that underlie the induction or maintenance of synaptic plasticity. For example, Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is due to a mutation in cbp, encoding the histone acetyltransferase CREB-binding protein (CBP). CBP is a transcriptional co-activator for CREB, and induction of CREB-dependent transcription plays a key role in long-term memory (LTM). In animal models of RTS, mutations of cbp impair LTM and late-phase long-term potentiation (LTP). As a step toward exploring plausible intervention strategies to rescue the deficits in LTP, we extended our previous model of LTP induction to describe histone acetylation and simulated LTP impairment due to cbp mutation. Plausible drug effects were simulated by model parameter changes, and many increased LTP. However no parameter variation consistent with a effect of a known drug class fully restored LTP. Thus we examined paired parameter variations consistent with effects of known drugs. A pair that simulated the effects of a phosphodiesterase inhibitor (slowing cAMP degradation) concurrent with a deacetylase inhibitor (prolonging histone acetylation) restored normal LTP. Importantly these paired parameter changes did not alter basal synaptic weight. A pair that simulated the effects of a phosphodiesterase inhibitor and an acetyltransferase activator was similarly effective. For both pairs strong additive synergism was present. The effect of the combination was greater than the summed effect of the separate parameter changes. These results suggest that promoting histone acetylation while simultaneously slowing the degradation of cAMP may constitute a promising strategy for restoring deficits in LTP that may be associated with learning deficits in RTS. More generally these results illustrate how the strategy of combining modeling and empirical studies may provide insights into the design of effective therapies for improving long-term synaptic plasticity and learning associated with cognitive disorders.
The multifunctional Creb-binding protein (CBP) protein plays a pivotal role in many critical cellular processes. Here we demonstrate that the bromodomain of CBP binds to histone H3 acetylated on lysine 56 (K56Ac) with higher affinity than to its other monoacetylated binding partners. We show that autoacetylation of CBP is critical for the bromodomain-H3 K56Ac interaction, and we propose that this interaction occurs via autoacetylation-induced conformation changes in CBP. Unexpectedly, the bromodomain promotes acetylation of H3 K56 on free histones. The CBP bromodomain also interacts with the histone chaperone anti-silencing function 1 (ASF1) via a nearby but distinct interface. This interaction is necessary for ASF1 to promote acetylation of H3 K56 by CBP, indicating that the ASF1-bromodomain interaction physically delivers the histones to the histone acetyl transferase domain of CBP. A CBP bromodomain mutation manifested in Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome has compromised binding to both H3 K56Ac and ASF1, suggesting that these interactions are important for the normal function of CBP.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is an incurable genetic disorder with combination of mental retardation and physical features including broad thumbs and toes, craniofacial abnormalities, and growth deficiency. While the autosomal dominant mode of transmission is limitedly known, the majority of cases are attributable to de novo mutations in RTS. The first identified gene associated with RTS is CREB-binding protein (CREBBP/CBP). Alterations of the epigenetic 'histone code' due to dysfunction of the CBP histone acetyltransferase activity deregulate gene transcriptions that are prominently linked to RTS pathogenesis. In this review, we discuss how CBP mutation contributes to modifications of histone and how histone deacetylase inhibitors are therapeutically applicable to epigenetic conditioning in RTS. Since most genetic mutations are irreversible and therapeutic approaches are limited, therapeutic targeting of reversible epigenetic components altered in RTS may be an ideal strategy. Expeditious further study on the role of the epigenetic mechanisms in RTS is encouraged to identify novel epigenetic markers and therapeutic targets to treat RTS.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by facial abnormalities, broad thumbs and toes, and mental retardation. RTS is known to be caused by the disruption, either by point mutations or microdeletions, of the human CREB-binding protein (CREBBP) gene on 16p13.3. Gross rearrangements involving 16p13.3, such as translocations or inversions, have rarely been reported in RTS. A 3-month-old boy with a phenotype typical of RTS was referred for genetic diagnosis. Cytogenetic analysis revealed a novel reciprocal translocation: t(1;16)(p36.2;p13.3). Gene dosage analysis for the CREBBP gene was performed using multiple ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) and revealed heterozygous deletion of the whole CREBBP gene. Genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-array confirmed the deletion and also indicated large genomic deletions in both 1p36.2 and 16p13.3. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of characterization of the genomic dosage imbalances in RTS by SNP-array.
Medulloblastomas (MB) are classified in four subgroups: the well defined WNT and Sonic Hedgehog (SHH) subgroups, and the less defined groups 3 and 4. They occasionally occur in the context of a cancer predisposition syndrome. While germline APC mutations predispose to WNT MB, germline mutations in SUFU, PTCH1, and TP53 predispose to SHH tumors. We report on a child with a Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) due to a germline deletion in CREBBP, who developed a MB. Biological profilings demonstrate that this tumor belongs to the group 3. RTS may therefore be the first predisposition syndrome identified for non-WNT/non-SHH MB.
Prenatal exposure to moderate doses of valproic acid (VPA) produces brainstem abnormalities, while higher doses of this teratogen elicit social deficits in the rat. In this pilot study, we examined effects of prenatal exposure to a moderate dose of VPA on behavior and on transcriptomic expression in three brain regions that mediate social behavior. Pregnant Long Evans rats were injected with 350 mg/kg VPA or saline on gestational day 13. A modified social interaction test was used to assess social behavior and social preference/avoidance during early and late adolescence and in adulthood. VPA-exposed animals demonstrated more social investigation and play fighting than control animals. Social investigation, play fighting, and contact behavior also differed as a function of age; the frequency of these behaviors increased in late adolescence. Social preference and locomotor activity under social circumstances were unaffected by treatment or age. Thus, a moderate prenatal dose of VPA produces behavioral alterations that are substantially different from the outcomes that occur following exposure to a higher dose. At adulthood, VPA-exposed subjects exhibited transcriptomic abnormalities in three brain regions: anterior amygdala, cerebellar vermis, and orbitofrontal cortex. A common feature among the proteins encoded by the dysregulated genes was their ability to be modulated by acetylation. Analysis of the expression of individual exons also revealed that genes involved in post-translational modification and epigenetic regulation had particular isoforms that were ubiquitously dysregulated across brain regions. The vulnerability of these genes to the epigenetic effects of VPA may highlight potential mechanisms by which prenatal VPA exposure alters the development of social behavior.
Research has increasingly focused on the role of the cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response element binding (CREB) protein in learning and memory, particularly its role in cognitive disorders and neurodegeneration, such as Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome, and Coffin-Lowry syndrome. The cognitive dysfunction of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), which is widely recognized, is not completely in accordance with depressive severity, and the dysfunction persists upon clinical remission in some patients. However, few studies have focused on the role of CREB on cognitive function in patients with MDD. This study aimed to investigate the influence of CREB1 polymorphism on cognitive function in patients with MDD. The current study comprised 113 patients with MDD. The severity of depression was measured using the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, and cognitive function was assessed using the Stroop Neuropsychological Screening Test, verbal fluency test, and tests of immediate logical memory and visual reproduction. All subjects were genotyped with regard to CREB1 polymorphisms (rs10932201, rs2551645, rs2254137, rs6740584, and rs2551640). For the verbal fluency test, the results showed significant differences for all single-nucleotide polymorphism genotypic groups. For the Stroop color-word task, a significant difference was found only for rs6740584. No significant differences were found for the Stroop color task, the immediate logical memory test or the visual reproduction test. In conclusion, there was an effect of CREB1 polymorphism on selective attention and retrieval of long-term memory, but not on immediate memory.
Genomic aberrations in the CREBBP (CREB-binding protein - CREBBP or CBP) gene such as point mutations, small insertions or exonic copy number changes are usually associated with Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTs). In this study, the disruption of the CREBBP gene on chromosome 16p13.3, as revealed by CGH-array and FISH, suggests immune dysregulation in a patient with the Rubinstein Taybi syndrome (RTs) phenotype. Further investigation with Western blot techniques demonstrated decreased expression of CREB, NFκB, c-Jun, c-Fos, BCL2 and cMyc in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, thus indicating that the CREBBP gene is essential for the normal expression of these proteins and the regulation of immune responses.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder (prevalence 1:125,000) characterised by broad thumbs and halluces, facial dysmorphism, psychomotor development delay, skeletal defects, abnormalities in the posterior fossa and short stature. The known genetic causes are point mutations or deletions of the cAMP-response element binding protein-BP (CREBBP) (50-60% of the cases) and of the homologous gene E1A-binding protein (EP300) (5%).
We describe, for the first time in literature, a RTS Caucasian girl, 14-year-old, with growth hormone (GH) deficiency, pituitary hypoplasia, Arnold Chiari malformation type 1, double syringomyelic cavity and a novel CREBBP mutation (c.3546insCC).
We hypothesize that CREBBP mutation we have identified in this patient could be responsible also for RTS atypical features as GH deficiency and pituitary hypoplasia.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant congenital disorder characterized by postnatal growth retardation, psychomotor developmental delay, skeletal anomalies, peculiar facial morphology, and tumorigenesis. Mutations in the gene encoding the cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB, also known as CREBBP or CBP) on chromosome 16p13.3 have been identified. In addition, some patients with low intelligence quotients and autistic features bear large deletions. Based on these observations, we used multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification to search for large deletions affecting the CREBBP gene in a Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome patient. We identified a novel heterozygote deletion removing five exons (exons 17-21), encoding the histone acetyltransferase domain. We propose the use of multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification as a fast, accurate and cheap test for detecting large deletions in the CREBBP gene in the sub-group of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome patients with low intelligence quotients and autistic features.
Floating-Harbor syndrome (FHS) is a rare genetic disorder recently shown to be caused by mutations in the Snf2-related CREB-binding protein activator protein gene (SRCAP). It comprises three key clinical features of characteristic facies, expressive and receptive speech impairment and short stature. We report on a patient with this syndrome associated with early adult-onset hypertension and bilateral polycystic kidneys. Family screening for polycystic kidney disease was negative and mutations in polycystic kidney disease 1 and 2 genes (PKD1 and PKD2) were absent. Sequencing of the SRCAP gene demonstrated a de novo mutation matching one of the known FHS-associated mutations. The patient required treatment with anti-hypertensives and will require lifelong renal monitoring. We suggest this patient's presentation may be due to the pleiotropic effects of SRCAP mutations. Further, the protein encoded by SRCAP is known to interact with CREB-binding protein, the product of the gene mutated in Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome, which is associated with renal abnormalities. A literature review of the renal findings in patients with Floating-Harbor syndrome identified another patient with possible polycystic kidneys, two patients with early onset hypertension, and a young patient with a ruptured intracranial aneurysm, which can be a feature of classic adult polycystic kidney disease. Collectively, these findings suggest that all patients with Floating-Harbor syndrome should undergo regular blood pressure monitoring and screening for polycystic kidneys by ultrasound at the time of the FHS diagnosis with imaging to be repeated during adulthood if a childhood ultrasound was negative.
The introduction of molecular karyotyping technologies into the diagnostic work-up of patients with congenital disorders permitted the identification and delineation of novel microdeletion and microduplication syndromes. Interstitial 16p13.3 duplication, encompassing the CREBBP gene, which is mutated or deleted in the Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome, have been proposed to cause a recognisable syndrome with variable intellectual disability, normal growth, mild facial dysmorphism, mild anomalies of the extremities, and occasional findings such as developmental defects of the heart, genitalia, palate or the eyes. We here report the phenotypic and genotypic delineation of 9 patients carrying a submicroscopic 16p13.3 duplication, including the smallest 16p13.3 duplication reported so far. Careful clinical assessment confirms the distinctive clinical phenotype and also defines frequent associated features : marked speech problems, frequent ocular region involvement with upslanting of the eyes, narrow palpebral fissures, ptosis and strabismus, frequent proximal implantation of thumbs, cleft palate/bifid uvula and inguinal hernia. It also confirms that CREBBP is the critical gene involved in the duplication 16p13.3 syndrome.
We report on a patient with a recognizable phenotype of intellectual disability, multiple congenital anomalies, musculoskeletal anomalies and craniofacial dysmorphisms, carrying a de novo 0.4 Mb duplication of chromosome region 16p13.3 detected by SNP-array analysis. In addition, myopia, microcephaly and growth retardation were observed. The causal 16p13.3 duplication is one of the smallest reported so far, and includes the CREB binding protein gene (CREBBP, MIM 600140), whose haploinsufficiency is responsible for the Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome, and the adenylate cyclase 9 gene (ADCY9, MIM 603302). By comparing the clinical manifestations of our patient with those of patients carrying similar rearrangements, we confirmed that 16p13.3 microduplications of the Rubinstein-Taybi region result in a recognizable clinical condition that likely represents a single gene disorder. In addition, our case allowed us to define with more precision the smallest region of overlap (SRO) in all patients reported so far, encompassing only the CREBBP gene, and is useful to confirm and further define the phenotypic characteristics due to duplication of the CREBBP gene, being the first case of interstitial duplication with microcephaly and growth defects reported to date.
The purpose of this report is to describe the fluorescein angiography findings in a case of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome. Fundus photography and fluorescein angiography were performed on a 6-year-old male with Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome due to CREB binding protein gene mutation. Fundus photography showed glaucomatous cupping and diffusely attenuated retinal vasculature. Choroidal vasculature was prominent due to diffuse retinal atrophy with scattered focal retinal pigment epithelial changes. Fluorescein angiography showed retinal vascular attenuation, prolonged arteriovenous transit time with delayed venous filling, late small vessel leakage, and 360 degrees of peripheral avascularity. Peripheral retinal avascularity and retinal vascular inflammation evidenced by late small vessel leakage can be demonstrated by fluorescein angiography in the retinal dystrophy of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is a rare congenital disorder characterized by broad thumbs and halluces, dysmorphic facial features, mental retardation, and short stature. Mutations in the cAMP-response element binding protein-BP (CREBBP) gene (50-60% of cases) and E1A-binding protein (EP300, 3%) are known genetic causes in affected individuals. Here, we describe a genetically confirmed Korean RTS patient with atypical features, including Hirschsprung disease and growth hormone deficiency. Mutational analysis revealed a novel heterozygous frameshift mutation, c.2064_2077del14 (p.Gly689Cysfs*32) in the CREBBP gene.
Studies using the placental transcriptome to identify key molecules relevant for preeclampsia are hampered by a relatively small sample size. In addition, they use a variety of bioinformatics and statistical methods, making comparison of findings challenging. To generate a more robust preeclampsia gene expression signature, we performed a meta-analysis on the original data of 11 placenta RNA microarray experiments, representing 139 normotensive and 116 preeclamptic pregnancies. Microarray data were pre-processed and analyzed using standardized bioinformatics and statistical procedures and the effect sizes were combined using an inverse-variance random-effects model. Interactions between genes in the resulting gene expression signature were identified by pathway analysis (Ingenuity Pathway Analysis, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis, Graphite) and protein-protein associations (STRING). This approach has resulted in a comprehensive list of differentially expressed genes that led to a 388-gene meta-signature of preeclamptic placenta. Pathway analysis highlights the involvement of the previously identified hypoxia/HIF1A pathway in the establishment of the preeclamptic gene expression profile, while analysis of protein interaction networks indicates CREBBP/EP300 as a novel element central to the preeclamptic placental transcriptome. In addition, there is an apparent high incidence of preeclampsia in women carrying a child with a mutation in CREBBP/EP300 (Rubinstein-Taybi Syndrome). The 388-gene preeclampsia meta-signature offers a vital starting point for further studies into the relevance of these genes (in particular CREBBP/EP300) and their concomitant pathways as biomarkers or functional molecules in preeclampsia. This will result in a better understanding of the molecular basis of this disease and opens up the opportunity to develop rational therapies targeting the placental dysfunction causal to preeclampsia.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome is characterized by distinctive facial and limb features and is associated with several types of tumors. A 29-yr-old woman with this syndrome presented with a large, complex ovarian mass. She was subsequently diagnosed with a low-grade serous carcinoma of the ovary and an endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the uterus. Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome is an autosomal dominant, multiple congenital anomalies-mental retardation syndrome. Two genes, CREBBP and EP300, have been found to be associated with this disorder, although some cases do not have an identifiable cause. These genes code for proteins that acetylate histone tails, an epigenetic modification that serves to control transcription. They also serve as cofactors to several transcription factors and modulate p53. Although these patients have a predisposition to benign and malignant neoplasms, no malignant gynecologic neoplasm has been described thus far. Although no significant evidence linking CREBBP and EP300 to gynecologic malignancies has yet been found, some studies have suggested that hypoacetylation of histones may be involved in endometrial and ovarian carcinomas.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is a rare multiple congenital anomalies-intellectual disability syndrome. The diagnosis is made after birth and based on the detection of signs such as growth and developmental delay, minor facial anomalies, and broad thumbs and halluces. It is rare to suspect RTS during the prenatal period. We report here the approach to a patient with RTS whose pregnancy was complicated by multiple congenital anomalies. However, in the presence of the broad thumb and facial anomalies, we were able to suggest the correct diagnosis. The RTS was confirmed at birth and the molecular analysis of the major causative gene revealed a previously unreported heterozygous truncating mutation of CREBBP. This report provides new knowledge of the fetal phenotype of RTS.
Several genetic disorders are characterized by normal head size at birth, followed by deceleration in head growth resulting in postnatal microcephaly. Among these are classic disorders such as Angelman syndrome and MECP2-related disorder (formerly Rett syndrome), as well as more recently described clinical entities associated with mutations in CASK, CDKL5, CREBBP, and EP300 (Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome), FOXG1, SLC9A6 (Christianson syndrome), and TCF4 (Pitt-Hopkins syndrome). These disorders can be identified clinically by phenotyping across multiple neurodevelopmental and neurobehavioral realms, and enough data are available to recognize these postnatal microcephaly disorders as separate diagnostic entities in their own right. A second diagnostic grouping, comprised of Warburg MICRO syndrome, Cockayne syndrome, and Cerebral-oculo-facial skeletal syndrome, share similar features of somatic growth failure, ophthalmologic, and dysmorphologic features. Many postnatal microcephaly syndromes are caused by mutations in genes important in the regulation of gene expression in the developing forebrain and hindbrain, although important synaptic structural genes also play a role. This is an emerging group of disorders with a fascinating combination of brain malformations, specific epilepsies, movement disorders, and other complex neurobehavioral abnormalities.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) and Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS) are genetically heterogeneous multiple anomalies syndromes, each having a distinctive facial gestalt. Two genes (CREBBP and EP300) are known to cause RTS, and five (NIPBL, SMC1A, SMC3, RAD21, and HDAC8) have been associated with CdLS. A diagnosis of RTS or CdLS is molecularly confirmed in only 65% of clinically identified cases, suggesting that additional causative genes exist for both conditions. In addition, although EP300 and CREBBP encode homologous proteins and perform similar functions, only eight EP300 positive RTS patients have been reported, suggesting that patients with EP300 mutations might be escaping clinical recognition. We report on a child with multiple congenital abnormalities and intellectual disability whose facial features and complex phenotype resemble CdLS. However, no mutations in CdLS-related genes were identified. Rather, a novel EP300 mutation was found on whole exome sequencing. Possible links between EP300 and genes causing CdLS are evident in the literature. Both EP300 and HDAC8 are involved in the regulation of TP53 transcriptional activity. In addition, p300 and other chromatin associated proteins, including NIPBL, SMCA1, and SMC3, have been found at enhancer regions in different cell types. It is therefore possible that EP300 and CdLS-related genes are involved in additional shared pathways, producing overlapping phenotypes. As whole exome sequencing becomes more widely utilized, the diverse phenotypes associated with EP300 mutations should be better understood. In the meantime, testing for EP300 mutations in those with features of CdLS may be warranted.
Genotype-phenotype analysis of at least 25 individuals with interstitial 16p13.3 duplications defines a recognizable syndrome associated with duplication of a critical Rubinstein-Taybi region encompassing only the CREBBP gene. Nevertheless, variable or incompletely penetrant phenotype has been reported previously. We here report a case of a 5-year old boy with a recognizable phenotype of this syndrome, including intellectual disability, mild arthrogryposis, small and proximally implanted thumbs and characteristic facial features. In addition, growth delay, microcephaly and distinguishable structural brain MRI abnormalities were observed. A de novo 1.5 Mb interstitial duplication of 16p13.3 was detected by SNP-array and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Short tandem repeat polymorphism (STRP) analysis with marker D16S475 indicated that the duplication was formed before maternal meiosis II. Our findings highlight the variable clinical features and further expand the phenotypic spectrum correlated with this lately proposed syndrome.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is a rare autosomal dominant genetic disorder and is characterized by mental retardation, distinctive facial features, broad and often angulated thumbs and great toes. We report on a 7 year old boy with classical Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome. His facial and clinical features were very typical, including broad thumbs with radial angulation and broad great toes. Rigorous genetic analysis of the CREBBP and EP300 genes using DNA sequencing and multiple ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) revealed no causative mutation in this boy, only a hitherto unreported but paternally inherited heterozygous sequence alteration, c.506 1+9C>T in IVS 30-31, which most likely represents a normal variant (NetGene 2 splice prediction software). We question if this boy could have a hitherto undetectable mutation type.
Floating-Harbor syndrome (FHS) is a rare condition characterized by short stature, delayed osseous maturation, expressive-language deficits, and a distinctive facial appearance. Occurrence is generally sporadic, although parent-to-child transmission has been reported on occasion. Employing whole-exome sequencing, we identified heterozygous truncating mutations in SRCAP in five unrelated individuals with sporadic FHS. Sanger sequencing identified mutations in SRCAP in eight more affected persons. Mutations were de novo in all six instances in which parental DNA was available. SRCAP is an SNF2-related chromatin-remodeling factor that serves as a coactivator for CREB-binding protein (CREBBP, better known as CBP, the major cause of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome [RTS]). Five SRCAP mutations, two of which are recurrent, were identified; all are tightly clustered within a small (111 codon) region of the final exon. These mutations are predicted to abolish three C-terminal AT-hook DNA-binding motifs while leaving the CBP-binding and ATPase domains intact. Our findings show that SRCAP mutations are the major cause of FHS and offer an explanation for the clinical overlap between FHS and RTS.
Mutations in the coactivator CREB-binding protein (CBP) are a major cause of the human skeletal dysplasia Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS); however, the mechanism by which these mutations affect skeletal mineralization and patterning is unknown. Here, we report the identification of 3-phosphoinositide-dependent kinase 1 (PDK1) as a key regulator of CBP activity and demonstrate that its functions map to both osteoprogenitor cells and mature osteoblasts. In osteoblasts, PDK1 activated the CREB/CBP complex, which in turn controlled runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) activation and expression of bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2). These pathways also operated in vivo, as evidenced by recapitulation of RTS spectrum phenotypes with osteoblast-specific Pdk1 deletion in mice (Pdk1osx mice) and by the genetic interactions observed in mice heterozygous for both osteoblast-specific Pdk1 deletion and either Runx2 or Creb deletion. Finally, treatment of Pdk1osx and Cbp+/- embryos with BMPs in utero partially reversed their skeletal anomalies at birth. These findings illustrate the in vivo function of the PDK1-AKT-CREB/CBP pathway in bone formation and provide proof of principle for in utero growth factor supplementation as a potential therapy for skeletal dysplasias.
Chiari malformations are multifactorial and heterogeneous entities, characterized by abnormalities in the posterior fossa. They have been identified in association with various genetic syndromes in recent years. Two previous studies have noted an association of Chiari malformations with Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS). In this clinical report, we highlight identical twins with RTS caused by a mutation in CREBBP that presented with slightly different Chiari malformations in association with an extensive multiloculated syrinx and scoliosis. RTS has been found to be associated with craniocervical abnormalities in literature review, and this clinical report demonstrates the prudent consideration of the physician who cares for patients impacted by RTS to effectively screen via symptomatology and physical examination for Chiari pathology or other craniocervical abnormalities.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is a congenital disorder characterized by typical facial features, broad thumbs and toes, with mental retardation. Additionally, tumors, keloids and various congenital anomalies including congenital heart defects have been reported in RTS patients. In about 50% of the patients, mutations in the CREB binding protein (CREBBP) have been found, which are understood to be associated with cell growth and proliferation. Here, we describe a typical RTS patient with Arnold-Chiari malformation. A mutation in the CREBBP gene, c.4944_4945insC, was identified by mutational analysis.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is a rare developmental disorder characterized by craniofacial dysmorphisms, broad thumbs and toes, mental and growth deficiency, and recurrent respiratory infections. RTS has been associated with CREBBP gene mutations, but EP300 gene mutations have recently been reported in 6 individuals. In the present study, the humoral immune response in 16 RTS patients with recurrent respiratory infections of possible bacterial etiology was evaluated. No significant differences between patients and 16 healthy controls were detected to explain the high susceptibility to respiratory infections: normal or elevated serum immunoglobulin levels, normal salivary IgA levels, and a good antibody response to both polysaccharide and protein antigens were observed. However, most patients presented high serum IgM levels, a high number of total B cell and B subsets, and also high percentiles of apoptosis, suggesting that they could present B dysregulation. The CREBBP/p300 family gene is extremely important for B-cell regulation, and RTS may represent an interesting human model for studying the molecular mechanisms involved in B-cell development.
The Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is defined congenital anomalies and is characterized by postnatal growth deficiency, microcephaly, specific facial characteristics, broad thumbs and big toes, and mental retardation. RTS displays an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern and is typically caused by cAMP response element-binding (CREB)-binding protein deficiency. Various complications such as eye anomalies and a variety of congenital heart defects are reported in such cases. We treated an RTS patient who had a dissecting aneurysm of the anterior cerebral artery. The patient was a 44-year-old man who was brought to our hospital because of sudden left hemiplegia. Magnetic resonance images showed a cerebral infarction caused by anterior cerebral artery dissection. Coil embolization was performed on enlargement of the dissecting aneurysm, and the procedure was successful.
RTS may be accompanied by cerebrovascular disease.
Familial Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is very rare. Here we report on the 6th and 7th case of inherited RTS. Family 1 presents with incomplete or mild RTS over three generations; a 13-year-old girl (proband 1) with mild but typical facial features and learning disabilities, her very mildly affected mother (proband 2), and the maternal grandmother (proband 3). Family 2 includes three females with classical RTS (probands 4-6) and their father (proband 7) with broad thumbs and halluces. Proband 5 also had a brain tumor (ganglioglioma) at the age of 3 years. In probands 1-3, direct sequencing identified a novel CREBBP missense mutation, c.2728A > G (predicting p.Thr910Ala), that was absent in non-affected family members. The p.Thr910Ala variant is outside the crucial histone acetyltransferase domain, and this may explain the mild and variable phenotype. In probands 4-7 we identified another novel CREBBP mutation, c.4134G > T, which alters the consensus splice sequence at position 1 of exon 25. The c.4134G > T mutation was transmitted from the very mildly affected father who displayed somatic mosaicism (with 38% mutated alleles in blood and 31% in buccal smear DNA) to his three daughters. Our findings emphasize that variable expression (family 1) and somatic mosaicism (family 2) contribute to the phenotypic variability of RTS. Somatic mosaicism may be more frequent in RTS than previously assumed. Accumulating data suggest a recurrence risk of approximately 0.5-1% for parents of a child with RTS, exceeding the so far estimated risk of approximately 0.1% for siblings.
Increasing evidence indicates that epigenetic changes regulate cell genesis. Here, we ask about neural precursors, focusing on CREB binding protein (CBP), a histone acetyltransferase that, when haploinsufficient, causes Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS), a genetic disorder with cognitive dysfunction. We show that neonatal cbp(+/-) mice are behaviorally impaired, displaying perturbed vocalization behavior. cbp haploinsufficiency or genetic knockdown with siRNAs inhibited differentiation of embryonic cortical precursors into all three neural lineages, coincident with decreased CBP binding and histone acetylation at promoters of neuronal and glial genes. Inhibition of histone deacetylation rescued these deficits. Moreover, CBP phosphorylation by atypical protein kinase C zeta was necessary for histone acetylation at neural gene promoters and appropriate differentiation. These data support a model in which environmental cues regulate CBP activity and histone acetylation to control neural precursor competency to differentiate, and indicate that cbp haploinsufficiency disrupts this mechanism, thereby likely causing cognitive dysfunction in RTS.
The diagnosis of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is primarily clinical and based on the characteristic phenotype that is often combined with a variety of somatic anomalies and psychiatric disorders.
In this paper, a review is presented of the psychiatric and behavioural aspects of RTS. This is illustrated with a case report.
Behavioural aspects of about 150 patients are described, and include a variable degree of mental retardation, impulsivity, distractibility, instability of mood and stereotypies. In general, patients with RTS are described as sociable and friendly. Information about brain pathology is virtually absent. In about half of the cases, the syndrome is caused by a mutation or deletion of the CREB-binding protein (CBP) gene (16p13.3). The case report deals with an adult male who was referred for impulsivity and temper outbursts. A provisional diagnosis of atypical depression was made, and treatment with citalopram resulted in a remarkable amelioration of his mood and behaviour that persisted for more than 2 years (last observation).
Patients with undetected genetic syndromes do occur in clinical psychiatry, and the clinician has to consider such disorders in cases with disturbed development, dysmorphias and somatic comorbidity.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is a rare syndrome with a frequency of approximately 1 in 125,000 affected newborns, which is characterized by mental retardation, growth retardation, a particular dysmorphology and, in a subset of cases, immunodeficiency. RTS is typically caused by CREBBP deficiency, and heterozygous mutation or deletion of the CREBBP gene has been identified in 60-70% of patients. The inheritance is autosomal dominant but reports of vertical transmission are exceedingly rare; near-all cases are caused by de novo mutations. Here we present an 8-month-old boy with varicella meningoencephalitis, RTS, and a de novo deletion of the CREBBP gene of two base pairs at position 201-202 in exon 2, c. 201 202delT. The mutation has not been described previously but it predicts a protein truncation, and truncating CREBBP mutations are typical causes of RTS.
Research regarding the behavioral aspects of children with Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) has suggested some possible behavioral patterns including autistic features. Caregivers of 39 children (mean age = 8.4 years) with RTS (49% showing abnormality in CREBBP gene) and 39 children (mean age = 8.6 years) matched on developmental level, age and gender were administered the Child Behavior Checklist and the Children's Social Behavior Questionnaire. Children with RTS did not exhibit higher internalizing (affective and anxiety symptoms) or externalizing (disruptive symptoms) behavioral problems than expected for their age/developmental range. However, they displayed some specific behaviors: short attention span, motor stereotypies, poor coordination, and overweight. The presence of an identified CREBBP gene abnormality was possibly related to the motor difficulties through impaired motor skills learning.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is a rare multiple congenital anomaly/intellectual impairment syndrome. Loss of function in CREBBP or EP300 genes has been found in about 50% of patients with RTS. Genotype-phenotype correlations were investigated in 93 patients meeting diagnostic criteria for RTS during 2 international RTS family conferences. Mutation analysis of CREBBP was performed on all 31 coding exons and exon-intron junctions; a subset of patients had FISH analysis for large deletions. A total of 64 different variations were observed in the DNA sequence, and determined to be definitive mutations in 52 patients (56%). Mutations detected included: 10 missense mutations; 36 truncating or splice-site mutations; and 6 large deletions detectable by FISH. Fourteen patients had synonymous changes of unknown significance. The majority of mutations affected the HAT domain of CREBBP or predicted termination of the protein before the HAT region. Extensive phenotypic data were collected on each patient and analyzed to determine correlations with mutation types, that is, truncating, large deletions, single amino acid substitutions, or no CREBBP mutation. All four groups displayed the characteristic facial and thumb dysmorphology. Growth retardation in height and weight was seen more frequently in patients with no CREBBP mutation; seizure disorder was more frequent in those with CREBBP mutations. Degree of mental retardation was similar in all groups, although there was a trend toward lower IQ and autistic features in patients with large deletions. Similarity in phenotype between the groups implies that the several genes involved in causing RTS likely have effects through the same pathway.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS) is characterized by mental retardation, broad thumbs and great toes and a recognizable craniofacial phenotype. Causative mutations have been described in the CREBBP and EP300 genes. Here we present a 19-year-old woman and an unrelated 3-year-old boy, both with broad thumbs and halluces, but with facial aspects distinct from those of typical RTS. The woman had a marked learning disability, but no mental retardation. We identified a de novo c.7100delC mutation in EP300 (which predicts p.P2366RfsX35) in the woman and an apparently de novo c.638delG mutation in the boy, which predicts p.G213EfsX6. Mutations in EP300 are a known but rare cause of RTS. Only five other patients have been reported. We propose that individuals with EP300 mutations may exhibit a slightly different phenotype compared to individuals with CREBBP mutations, with milder cognitive impairment, more pronounced microcephaly, absent or mild downslanting of palpebral fissures, distinct arched eyebrows, and greater degree of retrognathia.
The Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS; OMIM 180849) is a well-defined mental retardation/multiple congenital anomalies (MR/MCA) syndrome characterized by postnatal growth retardation, microcephaly, specific facial features, broad thumbs and halluces, and MR of variable degree. Ten percent of patients with RTS have a microdeletion 16p13.3, 40-50% carry a mutation of the CREBBP gene and another 3% have a mutation in the EP300 gene. In the remaining patients with clinically suspected RTS no mutation can be detected. Here we describe two patients with an RTS phenotype, one with a mutation in the CREBBP gene and the other without a detectable CREBBP or EP300 mutation and without a chromosomal imbalance on high-resolution arrays. Both patients present with the characteristic facial RTS phenotype, broad thumbs and big toes, mild MR, formation of keloids and glaucoma, but without postnatal growth retardation or microcephaly. In addition, they have both congenital camptodactyly of third (and fourth) fingers, which has not reported in RTS previously. We suggest that they represent a clinical subtype of RTS.
The Na+/glucose cotransporter 1 (SGLT1) is responsible for glucose uptake in intestinal epithelial cells. It has been shown that the intestinal SGLT1 level is significantly increased in diabetic individuals and positively correlated with the pathogenesis of diabetes. The development of targeted therapeutics that can reduce the intestinal SGLT1 expression level is therefore important. In this study, we showed that ginsenoside Rg1 effectively decreased intestinal glucose uptake through inhibition of SGLT1 gene expression in vivo and in vitro. Transient transfection analysis of the SGLT1 promoter revealed an essential cAMP response element (CRE) which confers the Rg1-mediated inhibition of SGLT1 gene expression. ChIP assay and targeted CREB silencing demonstrated that Rg1 reduced the promoter binding of CRE-binding protein (CREB) and CREB-binding protein (CBP) that is associated with an inactivated chromatin status. In addition, further studies showed that the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling pathway also plays an essential role in the inhibitory effect of Rg1. Taken together, our study demonstrates the involvement of EGFR-CREB signaling pathway in the Rg1-mediated downregulation of SGLT1 expression, which offers a potential strategy in the development of anti-hyperglycemic and anti-diabetic treatments.
Specific and coordinated regulation of innate immune receptor-driven signaling networks often determines the net outcome of the immune responses. Here, we investigated the cross-regulation of toll-like receptor (TLR)2 and nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)2 pathways mediated by Ac2PIM, a tetra-acylated form of mycobacterial cell wall component and muramyl dipeptide (MDP), a peptidoglycan derivative respectively. While Ac2PIM treatment of macrophages compromised their ability to induce NOD2-dependent immunomodulators like cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS)-3 and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9, no change in the NOD2-responsive NO, TNF-α, VEGF-A and IL-12 levels was observed. Further, genome-wide microRNA expression profiling identified Ac2PIM-responsive miR-150 and miR-143 to target NOD2 signaling adaptors, RIP2 and TAK1 respectively. Interestingly, Ac2PIM was found to activate the SRC-FAK-PYK2-CREB cascade via TLR2 to recruit CBP/P300 at the promoters of miR-150 and miR-143 and epigenetically induce their expression. Loss-of-function studies utilizing specific miRNA inhibitors establish that Ac2PIM, via the miRNAs, abrogate NOD2-induced PI3K-PKCδ-MAPK pathway to suppress β-CATENIN-mediated expression of COX-2, SOCS-3 and MMP-9. Our investigation has thus underscored the negative regulatory role of Ac2PIM-TLR2 signaling on NOD2 pathway which could broaden our understanding on vaccine potential or adjuvant utilities of Ac2PIM and/or MDP.
The progressive neurodegenerative disorder Alzheimer's disease (AD) manifests as loss of cognitive functions, and finally leads to death of the affected individual. AD may result from accumulation of amyloid plaques. These amyloid plaques comprising of amyloid-beta 42 (Aβ42) polypeptides results from the improper cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in the brain. The Aβ42 plaques have been shown to disrupt the normal cellular processes and thereby trigger abnormal signaling which results in the death of neurons. However, the molecular-genetic mechanism(s) responsible for Aβ42 mediated neurodegeneration is yet to be fully understood.
We have utilized Gal4/UAS system to develop a transgenic fruit fly model for Aβ42 mediated neurodegeneration. Targeted misexpression of human Aβ42 in the differentiating photoreceptor neurons of the developing eye of transgenic fly triggers neurodegeneration. This progressive neurodegenerative phenotype resembles Alzheimer's like neuropathology. We identified a histone acetylase, CREB Binding Protein (CBP), as a genetic modifier of Aβ42 mediated neurodegeneration. Targeted misexpression of CBP along with Aβ42 in the differentiating retina can significantly rescue neurodegeneration. We found that gain-of-function of CBP rescues Aβ42 mediated neurodegeneration by blocking cell death. Misexpression of Aβ42 affects the targeting of axons from retina to the brain but misexpression of full length CBP along with Aβ42 can restore this defect. The CBP protein has multiple domains and is known to interact with many different proteins. Our structure function analysis using truncated constructs lacking one or more domains of CBP protein, in transgenic flies revealed that Bromo, HAT and polyglutamine (BHQ) domains together are required for the neuroprotective function of CBP. This BHQ domain of CBP has not been attributed to promote survival in any other neurodegenerative disorders.
We have identified CBP as a genetic modifier of Aβ42 mediated neurodegeneration. Furthermore, we have identified BHQ domain of CBP is responsible for its neuroprotective function. These studies may have significant bearing on our understanding of genetic basis of AD.
Green anoles are seasonally breeding lizards in which male sexual behavior is primarily regulated by an annual increase in testosterone. This hormone activates stereotyped behaviors, as well as morphological and biochemical changes in the brain, with greater effect in the breeding season than in the non-breeding season. This study is the first description of CREB binding protein (CBP) in the reptilian brain, and investigates the possibility that changes in CBP, an androgen receptor coactivator, may facilitate differences in responsiveness to testosterone across seasons. A portion of this gene was cloned for the green anole, and in situ hybridization was performed to examine the expression of CBP in the brains of gonadally intact male and female green anoles across breeding states. Additionally, hormonal regulation of CBP was evaluated across sex and season in animals that were gonadectomized and treated with testosterone or a control. Similar to other vertebrates, CBP was expressed at relatively high levels in steroid-sensitive brain regions. In the anole ventromedial amygdala, CBP mRNA levels were nearly twice as high in gonadally intact females compared to males. In contrast, CBP expression did not differ across seasons or hormone manipulation in this brain region. No significant effects were detected in the preoptic area or ventromedial hypothalamus. This pattern suggests that CBP might influence female-biased functions controlled by the ventromedial amygdala, but is not consistent with a role in mediating seasonal differences in responsiveness to testosterone in these areas associated with reproductive function.
The cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB) is a signal-dependent transcription factor that exerts its positive effects on gene transcription of a broad range of genes by recruiting coactivators, including CREB-binding protein (CBP), its paralog, p300, and the family of CRTC (CREB-regulated transcriptional coactivators) proteins. Whereas recruitment of CBP/p300 is dependent on CREB phosphorylation at Ser133, recruitment of CRTCs is not. Here we describe how both mechanisms could concurrently drive transcription of CREB targets in a subset of head and neck cancers featuring chromosomal translocations that fuse portions of CRTC1 and CRTC3 genes with that of the Mastermind-like transcriptional coactivator MAML2. We show that a peptide derived from transactivation domain 1 (TAD1) of MAML2 binds to the CBP KIX domain with micromolar affinity. An ∼20-residue segment within this peptide, conserved in MAML2 orthologs and paralogs, binds directly to a KIX surface previously shown to bind to MLL1. The 20-residue MAML2 segment shares sequence similarity with MLL1, especially at those positions in direct contact with KIX, and like MLL1, the segment is characterized by the presence of an ∼10-residue helix. Because CRTC1/3-MAML2 fusion proteins are constitutively nuclear, like CREB, our results suggest constitutive recruitment of CBP/p300 to CREB targets that could be further enhanced by signals that cause CREB Ser133 phosphorylation.
Th17 responses are critical to a variety of human autoimmune diseases, and therapeutic targeting with monoclonal antibodies against IL-17 and IL-23 has shown considerable promise. Here, we report data to support selective bromodomain blockade of the transcriptional coactivators CBP (CREB binding protein) and p300 as an alternative approach to inhibit human Th17 responses. We show that CBP30 has marked molecular specificity for the bromodomains of CBP and p300, compared with 43 other bromodomains. In unbiased cellular testing on a diverse panel of cultured primary human cells, CBP30 reduced immune cell production of IL-17A and other proinflammatory cytokines. CBP30 also inhibited IL-17A secretion by Th17 cells from healthy donors and patients with ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis. Transcriptional profiling of human T cells after CBP30 treatment showed a much more restricted effect on gene expression than that observed with the pan-BET (bromo and extraterminal domain protein family) bromodomain inhibitor JQ1. This selective targeting of the CBP/p300 bromodomain by CBP30 will potentially lead to fewer side effects than with the broadly acting epigenetic inhibitors currently in clinical trials.
Nervous system development relies on the generation of precise numbers of excitatory and inhibitory neurons. The homeodomain transcription factor, T-cell leukemia 3 (Tlx3), functions as the master neuronal fate regulator by instructively promoting the specification of glutamatergic excitatory neurons and suppressing the specification of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAergic) neurons. However, how Tlx3 promotes glutamatergic neuronal subtype specification is poorly understood. In this study, we found that Tlx3 directly interacts with the epigenetic co-activator cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-response element-binding protein (CREB)-binding protein (CBP) and that the Tlx3 homeodomain is essential for this interaction. The interaction between Tlx3 and CBP was enhanced by the three amino acid loop extension (TALE)-class homeodomain transcription factor, pre-B-cell leukemia transcription factor 3 (Pbx3). Using mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells stably expressing Tlx3, we found that the interaction between Tlx3 and CBP became detectable only after these Tlx3-expressing ES cells were committed to a neural lineage, which coincided with increased Pbx3 expression during neural differentiation from ES cells. Forced expression of mutated Tlx3 lacking the homeodomain in ES cells undergoing neural differentiation resulted in significantly reduced expression of glutamatergic neuronal subtype markers, but had little effect on the expression on pan neural markers. Collectively, our results strongly suggest that functional interplay between Tlx3 and CBP plays a critical role in neuronal subtype specification, providing novel insights into the epigenetic regulatory mechanism that modulates the transcriptional efficacy of a selective set of neuronal subtype-specific genes during differentiation.
Nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) is an inducible transcription factor that mediates immune and inflammatory responses. NF-κB pathways are also involved in cell adhesion, differentiation, proliferation, autophagy, senescence, and protection against apoptosis. The deregulation of NF-κB activity is found in a number of disease states, including cancer, arthritis, chronic inflammation, asthma, neurodegenerative diseases, and heart disease. The 90 kDa ribosomal S6 kinase (p90RSK) family, which is serine/threonine kinases, is phosphorylated by extracellular signal-regulated kinase1/2 (ERK1/2) and is related to NF-κB pathways. Our previous studies revealed that Sec6, a component of the exocyst complex, plays specific roles in cell-cell adhesion and cell cycle arrest. However, the mechanism by which Sec6 regulates the NF-κB signaling pathway is unknown. We demonstrated that Sec6 knockdown inhibited the degradation of IκBα and delayed the nucleus-cytoplasm translocation of p65 in HeLa cells transfected with Sec6 siRNAs after treatment with tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α). Furthermore, the binding of p65 and cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) binding protein (CBP) or p300 decreased and NF-κB related genes which were inhibitors of NF-κB alpha (IκBα), A20, B cell lymphoma protein 2 (Bcl-2), and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) were low in cells transfected with Sec6 siRNAs in response to TNF-α stimulation. Sec6 knockdown decreased the expression of p90RSKs and the phosphorylation of ERK or p90RSK1 at Ser380 or IκBα at Ser32. The present study suggests that Sec6 regulates NF-κB transcriptional activity via the control of the phosphorylation of IκBα, p90RSK1, and ERK. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
CREB-binding protein (CBP) and p300 are transcriptional coactivators involved in numerous biological processes that affect cell growth, transformation, differentiation, and development. In this study, we provide evidence of the involvement of homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) in the regulation of CBP activity. We show that HIPK2 interacts with and phosphorylates several regions of CBP. We demonstrate that serines 2361, 2363, 2371, 2376, and 2381 are responsible for the HIPK2-induced mobility shift of CBP C-terminal activation domain. Moreover, we show that HIPK2 strongly potentiates the transcriptional activity of CBP. However, our data suggest that HIPK2 activates CBP mainly by counteracting the repressive action of cell cycle regulatory domain 1 (CRD1), located between amino acids 977 and 1076, independently of CBP phosphorylation. Our findings thus highlight a complex regulation of CBP activity by HIPK2, which might be relevant for the control of specific sets of target genes involved in cellular proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis.
This paper reviews the distinctive roles played by the transcriptional coactivators CREB-binding protein (CBP) and p300 in Wnt/β-catenin signaling and cell physiology in colorectal cancer (CRC). Specifically, we focus on the effects of CBP- and p300-mediated Wnt activity on (1) neoplastic progression; (2) the activities of butyrate, a breakdown product of dietary fiber, on cell signaling and colonic cell physiology; (3) the development of resistance to histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACis), including butyrate and synthetic HDACis, in colonic cells; and (4) the physiology and number of cancer stem cells. Mutations of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway initiate the majority of CRC cases, and we have shown that hyperactivation of this pathway by butyrate and other HDACis promotes CRC cell apoptosis. This activity by butyrate may in part explain the preventive action of fiber against CRC. However, individuals with a high-fiber diet may still develop neoplasia; therefore, resistance to the chemopreventive action of butyrate likely contributes to CRC. CBP or p300 may modify the ability of butyrate to influence colonic cell physiology since the two transcriptional coactivators affect Wnt signaling, and likely, its hyperactivation by butyrate. Also, CBP and p300 likely affect colonic tumorigenesis, as well as stem cell pluripotency. Improvement of CRC prevention and therapy requires a better understanding of the alterations in Wnt signaling and gene expression that underlie neoplastic progression, stem cell fate, and the development of resistance to butyrate and clinically relevant HDACis. Detailed knowledge of how CBP- and p300 modulate colonic cell physiology may lead to new approaches for anti-CRC prevention and therapeutics, particularly with respect to combinatorial therapy of CBP/p300 inhibitors with HDACis.
Intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) frequently function in protein interaction networks that regulate crucial cellular signaling pathways. Many IDPs undergo transitions from disordered conformational ensembles to folded structures upon binding to their cellular targets. Several possible binding mechanisms for coupled folding and binding have been identified: folding of the IDP after association with the target ("induced fit"), or binding of a prefolded state in the conformational ensemble of the IDP to the target protein ("conformational selection"), or some combination of these two extremes. The interaction of the intrinsically disordered phosphorylated kinase-inducible domain (pKID) of the cAMP-response element binding (CREB) protein with the KIX domain of a general transcriptional coactivator CREB-binding protein (CBP) provides an example of the induced-fit mechanism. Here we show by NMR relaxation dispersion experiments that a different intrinsically disordered ligand, the transactivation domain of the transcription factor c-Myb, interacts with KIX at the same site as pKID but via a different binding mechanism that involves elements of conformational selection and induced fit. In contrast to pKID, the c-Myb activation domain has a strong propensity for spontaneous helix formation in its N-terminal region, which binds to KIX in a predominantly folded conformation. The C-terminal region of c-Myb exhibits a much smaller helical propensity and likely folds via an induced-fit process after binding to KIX. We propose that the intrinsic secondary structure propensities of pKID and c-Myb determine their binding mechanisms, consistent with their functions as inducible and constitutive transcriptional activators.
The BCNT (Bucentaur) superfamily is classified by an uncharacteristic conserved sequence of ∼80 amino acids (aa) at the C-terminus, BCNT-C (the conserved C-terminal region of Bcnt/Cfdp1). Whereas the yeast Swc5 and Drosophila Yeti homologues play crucial roles in chromatin remodelling organization, mammalian Bcnt/Cfdp1 (craniofacial developmental protein 1) remains poorly understood. The protein, which lacks cysteine, is largely disordered and comprises an acidic N-terminal region, a lysine/glutamic acid/proline-rich 40 aa sequence and BCNT-C. It shows complex mobility on SDS/PAGE at ∼50 kDa, whereas its calculated molecular mass is ∼33 kDa. To characterize this mobility discrepancy and the effects of post-translational modifications (PTMs), we expressed various deleted His-Bcnt in E. coli and HEK cells and found that an acidic stretch in the N-terminal region is a main cause of the gel shift. Exogenous BCNT/CFDP1 constitutively expressed in HEK clones appears as a doublet at 49 and 47 kDa, slower than the protein expressed in Escherichia coli but faster than the endogenous protein on SDS/PAGE. Among seven in vivo phosphorylation sites, Ser(250), which resides in a region between disordered and ordered regions in BCNT-C, is heavily phosphorylated and detected predominantly in the 49 kDa band. Together with experiments involving treatment with phosphatases and Ser(250) substitutions, the results indicate that the complex behaviour of Bcnt/Cfdp1 on SDS/PAGE is caused mainly by an acidic stretch in the N-terminal region and Ser(250) phosphorylation in BCNT-C. Furthermore, Bcnt/Cfdp1 is acetylated in vitro by CREB-binding protein (CBP) and four lysine residues including Lys(268) in BCNT-C are also acetylated in vivo, revealing a protein regulated at multiple levels.
CLOCK-BMAL1 is a key transcription factor complex of the molecular clock system that generates circadian gene expression and physiology in mammals. Here, we demonstrate that sumoylation of BMAL1 mediates the rapid activation of CLOCK-BMAL1 by CREB-binding protein (CBP) in nuclear foci and also the resetting of the circadian clock. Under physiological conditions, a bimolecular fluorescence complementation-based fluorescence resonance energy transfer (BiFC-FRET) assay revealed that CLOCK-BMAL1 rapidly dimerized and formed a ternary complex with CBP in discrete nuclear foci in response to serum stimuli. We found that the formation of this ternary complex requires sumoylation of BMAL1 by SUMO3. These processes were abolished by both the ectopic expression of the SUMP2/3-specific protease, SUSP1, and mutation of the major sumoylation site (Lys(259)) of BMAL1. Moreover, molecular inhibition of BMAL1 sumoylation abrogated acute Per1 transcription and severely dampened the circadian gene oscillation triggered by clock synchronization stimuli. Taken together, these findings suggest that sumoylation plays a critical role in the spatiotemporal co-activation of CLOCK-BMAL1 by CBP for immediate-early Per induction and the resetting of the circadian clock.
PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling plays an important role in breast cancer. Its interaction with estrogen receptor (ER) signaling becomes more complex and interdependent with acquired endocrine resistance. Targeting mTOR combined with endocrine therapy has shown clinical utility; however, a negative feedback loop exists downstream of PI3K/AKT/mTOR. Direct blockade of AKT together with endocrine therapy may improve breast cancer treatment. AZD5363, a novel pan-AKT kinase catalytic inhibitor, was examined in a panel of ER(+) breast cancer cell lines (MCF7, HCC1428, T47D, ZR75.1) adapted to long-term estrogen deprivation (LTED) or tamoxifen (TamR). AZD5363 caused a dose-dependent decrease in proliferation in all cell lines tested (GI50 < 500 nmol/L) except HCC1428 and HCC1428-LTED. T47D-LTED and ZR75-LTED were the most sensitive of the lines (GI50 ∼100 nmol/L). AZD5363 resensitized TamR cells to tamoxifen and acted synergistically with fulvestrant. AZD5363 decreased p-AKT/mTOR targets leading to a reduction in ERα-mediated transcription in a context-specific manner and concomitant decrease in recruitment of ER and CREB-binding protein (CBP) to estrogen response elements located on the TFF1, PGR, and GREB1 promoters. Furthermore, AZD5363 reduced expression of cell-cycle-regulatory proteins. Global gene expression highlighted ERBB2-ERBB3, ERK5, and IGFI signaling pathways driven by MYC as potential feedback-loops. Combined treatment with AZD5363 and fulvestrant showed synergy in an ER(+) patient-derived xenograft and delayed tumor progression after cessation of therapy. These data support the combination of AZD5363 with fulvestrant as a potential therapy for breast cancer that is sensitive or resistant to E-deprivation or tamoxifen and that activated AKT is a determinant of response, supporting the need for clinical evaluation. Mol Cancer Ther; 14(9); 2035-48. ©2015 AACR.
CREB-binding protein (CBP) is a lysine acetyltransferase that regulates transcription by acetylating histone and non-histone substrates. Defects in CBP activity are associated with hematologic malignancies, neurodisorders, and congenital malformations. Sensitive and quantitative enzymatic assays are essential to better characterize the pathophysiological features of CBP. We describe a sensitive nonradioactive method to measure purified and immunopurified cellular CBP enzymatic activity through rapid reverse phase-ultra-fast liquid chromatography (RP-UFLC) analysis of fluorescent histone H3 peptide substrates. The applicability and biological relevance of the assay are supported by kinetic, inhibition, and immunoprecipitation studies. More broadly, this approach could be easily adapted to assay other lysine acetyltransferases or methyltransferases.
To observe the effects of moxibustion on factors related with apoptosis of myocardial cells after sports fatigue in mice as well as the relationship among histone acetyltransferases p300 (p300), CREB binding protein (CBP) and cell apoptosis to discuss the role of p300 and CBP in moxibustion against apoptosis of myocardial cells.
Sixty clean-grade male Kunming mice were randomly divided into a control group, a sport group and a moxibustion group, 20 cases in each one. Mice in all group received identical feeding environment. Mice in the control group did not received sport nor moxibustion; mice in the sport group and moxibustion group received non-weight swimming training which lasted from 30 min per day to 90 min per day gradually for 21 days; 1 h after swimming training, mice in the moxibustion group received moxibustion with seed-sized moxa cone at "Zusanli" (ST 36) and "Guanyuan" (CV 4), 5 cones at each acupoint, once a day for 21 days. 24 h after the final swimming training, cardiac muscle tissue was collected to test factor associated suicide (Fas), B cell lymphoma/lewkmia-2 (Bcl-2) by immunohistochemical method and expression of p300 and CBP.
Compared with the control group, the apoptosis rate of myocardial cells in the sport group was significantly increased (P<0.01), and apoptosis body with dense distribution and deep coloring can be seen in the field of microscope; the expression of Fas protein was significantly increased (P<0.01), and expression of Bcl-2, p300 and CBP was reduced (all P<0.01). The equally distributed apoptosis body with slight coloring was seen in the moxibustion group. Compared with the sport group, the apoptosis rate of myocardial cells in the moxibustion group was significantly reduced (P<0.05); the expression of Fas protein was significantly reduced (P<0.05), and expression of Bcl-2, p300 and CBP was increased (all P<0.05).
Moxibustion could promote the expression of p300 and CBP in myocardial cells after sports fatigue in mice to inhibit the starting of apoptotic process, therefore reducing the apoptosis of myocardial cells after heavy exercise and protecting heart function.
Serotonin (5-HT) has been reported to be involved in cancer progression by stimulating angiogenesis and cell growth. In this study, we examined the expression of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) and the role of histone deacetylases (HDACs) in regulating the 5-HTT gene in tumor cells. The 5-HTT gene expression was almost silenced in chicken lymphoma DT40, myelomonocytic tumor HD11 and hepatoma DU249 cells, compared to their physiological counterpart. In contrast, HDAC1 mRNA expression was increased in these cell lines. Indeed, the pan-HDAC inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA) enhanced the 5-HTT mRNA expression in several tumor cell lines including the human cell lines HepG2 and THP-1 and increased the 5-HT uptake in HD11 cells. In addition, treatment with parthenolide, which is capable of depleting HDAC1, and knockdown of HDAC1 using siRNA resulted in increased 5-HTT mRNA expression, confirming the role of HDAC1 in the down-regulation of 5-HTT in the tumor cells. Deletion analysis of the 5-HTT promoter and site-directed mutagenesis revealed that the transcription factor CCAAT/enhancer binding protein beta (C/EBPß), in interacting with the 5-HTT promoter, mediated both the inhibition of the 5-HTT expression by HDAC1 and the activation by CREB-binding protein (CBP). Using a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay, we found increased acetylation of histone H4 associated with the 5-HTT promoter in cells treated with TSA. Our results suggest that the 5-HTT gene is epigenetically downregulated by HDAC1 in several types of cancer.
Regulation of RNA polymerase II transcription is critical for the proper development, differentiation, and growth of an organism. The RNA polymerase II core promoter is the ultimate target of a multitude of transcription factors that control transcription initiation. Core promoters encompass the RNA start site and consist of functional elements such as the TATA box, initiator, and downstream core promoter element (DPE), which confer specific properties to the core promoter. We have previously discovered that Drosophila Caudal, which is a master regulator of genes involved in development and differentiation, is a DPE-specific transcriptional activator. Here, we show that the mouse Caudal-related homeobox (Cdx) proteins (mCdx1, mCdx2, and mCdx4) are also preferential core promoter transcriptional activators. To elucidate the mechanism that enables Caudal to preferentially activate DPE transcription, we performed structure-function analysis. Using a systematic series of deletion mutants (all containing the intact DNA-binding homeodomain) we discovered that the C-terminal region of Caudal contributes to the preferential activation of the fushi tarazu (ftz) Caudal target gene. Furthermore, the region containing both the homeodomain and the C terminus of Caudal was sufficient to confer core promoter-preferential activation to the heterologous GAL4 DNA-binding domain. Importantly, we discovered that Drosophila CREB-binding protein (dCBP) is a co-activator for Caudal-regulated activation of ftz. Strikingly, dCBP conferred the ability to preferentially activate the DPE-dependent ftz reporter to mini-Caudal proteins that were unable to preferentially activate ftz transcription themselves. Taken together, it is the unique combination of dCBP and Caudal that enables the co-activation of ftz in a core promoter-preferential manner.
Prolonged arsenic exposure has been shown to cause several detrimental effects in adults. However its effects following prenatal exposure are not well defined at the epigenetic level, particularly in terms of changes which may predispose an individual to adult malignancies. In this work, we have studied the effect of arsenic exposure on renal system using human embryonic kidney cells and prenatally exposed animals and identified Interleukin-8(IL-8) and its homologue (CINC-1) as mediators of arsenic induced renal toxicity. We further show that embryonic kidney cells are more responsive to arsenic leading to higher induction of IL-8 as compared to adult cells due to DNA methylation and histone acetylation (H3 acetylation) changes in the IL-8 promoter. Through bisulfite analysis of the IL-8 promoter, we have also identified an arsenic modulated CpG site at -168 bases upstream of transcription start site. This CpG is associated with C/EBP and CREB binding sites in the IL-8 promoter and its demethylation by arsenic coupled with increased H3 histone acetylation and CBP/P300 recruitment could lead to induction of IL-8. Our study shows how epigenetic modulation of IL-8 by arsenic could contribute to increased cell migratory and proliferative capabilities, cell cycle dysregulation and renal toxicity.
Due to the hyper-activation of WNT signaling in a variety of cancer types, there has been a strong drive to develop pathway-specific inhibitors with the eventual goal of providing a chemotherapeutic antagonist of WNT signaling to cancer patients. A new category of drugs, called epigenetic inhibitors, are being developed that hold high promise for inhibition of the WNT pathway. The canonical WNT signaling pathway initiates when WNT ligands bind to receptors, causing the nuclear localization of the co-activator β-catenin (CTNNB1), which leads to an association of β-catenin with a member of the TCF transcription factor family at regulatory regions of WNT-responsive genes. The TCF/β-catenin complex then recruits CBP (CREBBP) or p300 (EP300), leading to histone acetylation and gene activation. A current model in the field is that CBP-driven expression of WNT target genes supports proliferation whereas p300-driven expression of WNT target genes supports differentiation. The small molecule inhibitor ICG-001 binds to CBP, but not to p300, and competitively inhibits the interaction of CBP with β-catenin. Upon treatment of cancer cells, this should reduce expression of CBP-regulated transcription, leading to reduced tumorigenicity and enhanced differentiation.
We have compared the genome-wide effects on the transcriptome after treatment with ICG-001 (the specific CBP inhibitor) versus C646, a compound that competes with acetyl-coA for the Lys-coA binding pocket of both CBP and p300. We found that both drugs cause large-scale changes in the transcriptome of HCT116 colon cancer cells and PANC1 pancreatic cancer cells and reverse some tumor-specific changes in gene expression. Interestingly, although the epigenetic inhibitors affect cell cycle pathways in both the colon and pancreatic cancer cell lines, the WNT signaling pathway was affected only in the colon cancer cells. Notably, WNT target genes were similarly downregulated after treatment of HCT116 with C646 as with ICG-001.
Our results suggest that treatment with a general HAT inhibitor causes similar effects on the transcriptome as does treatment with a CBP-specific inhibitor and that epigenetic inhibition affects the WNT pathway in HCT116 cells and the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway in PANC1 cells.
The discovery of functional crosstalk between WNT and nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) signaling has established a more complex role for these two pathways in inflammation and cancer. However, the molecular mechanisms of the crosstalk and its biological consequences are largely unknown. Here, we show that WNT/β-catenin signaling selectively inhibits the expression of a proinflammatory subset of IL-1β-induced NF-κB target genes. WNT/β-catenin signaling does not affect nuclear translocation of the RelA subunit of NF-κB or its association with CBP (also known as CREBBP), but reduces CBP-mediated acetylation and chromatin recruitment of RelA. Thus, β-catenin selectively regulates NF-κB gene expression through its negative effects on RelA acetylation. This anti-inflammatory effect may be relevant for cancer treatment.
Genome-wide distribution of histone H3K18 and H3K27 acetyltransferases, CBP (CREBBP) and p300 (EP300), is used to map enhancers and promoters, but whether these elements functionally require CBP/p300 remains largely uncertain. Here we compared global CBP recruitment with gene expression in wild-type and CBP/p300 double-knockout (dKO) fibroblasts. ChIP-seq using CBP-null cells as a control revealed nearby CBP recruitment for 20% of constitutively-expressed genes, but surprisingly, three-quarters of these genes were unaffected or slightly activated in dKO cells. Computationally defined enhancer-promoter-units (EPUs) having a CBP peak near the enhancer-like element were more predictive, with CBP/p300 deletion attenuating expression of 40% of such constitutively-expressed genes. Examining signal-responsive (Hypoxia Inducible Factor) genes showed that 97% were within 50 kilobases of an inducible CBP peak, and 70% of these required CBP/p300 for full induction. Unexpectedly, most inducible CBP peaks occurred near signal-nonresponsive genes. Finally, single-cell expression analysis revealed additional context dependence where some signal-responsive genes were not uniformly dependent on CBP/p300 in individual cells. While CBP/p300 was needed for full induction of some genes in single-cells, for other genes CBP/p300 increased the probability of maximal expression. Thus, target gene context influences the transcriptional requirement for CBP/p300, possibly by multiple mechanisms.
Many processes in endothelial cells including angiogenic responses are regulated by microRNAs. However, there is limited information available about their complex cross-talk in regulating certain endothelial functions.
The objective of this study is to identify endothelial functions of the pro-hypertrophic miR-212/132 cluster and its cross-talk with other microRNAs during development and disease.
We here show that anti-angiogenic stimulation by transforming growth factor-beta activates the microRNA-212/132 cluster by derepression of their transcriptional co-activator cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB)-binding protein (CBP) which is a novel target of a previously identified pro-angiogenic miRNA miR-30a-3p in endothelial cells. Surprisingly, despite having the same seed-sequence, miR-212 and miR-132 exerted differential effects on endothelial transcriptome regulation and cellular functions with stronger endothelial inhibitory effects caused by miR-212. These differences could be attributed to additional auxiliary binding of miR-212 to its targets. In vivo, deletion of the miR-212/132 cluster increased endothelial vasodilatory function, improved angiogenic responses during postnatal development and in adult mice.
Our results identify (i) a novel miRNA-cross-talk involving miR-30a-3p and miR-212, which led to suppression of important endothelial genes such as GAB1 and SIRT1 finally culminating in impaired endothelial function; and (ii) microRNAs may have different biological roles despite having the same seed sequence.
Experience-dependent gene transcription is required for nervous system development and function. However, the DNA regulatory elements that control this program of gene expression are not well defined. Here we characterize the enhancers that function across the genome to mediate activity-dependent transcription in mouse cortical neurons. We find that the subset of enhancers enriched for monomethylation of histone H3 Lys4 (H3K4me1) and binding of the transcriptional coactivator CREBBP (also called CBP) that shows increased acetylation of histone H3 Lys27 (H3K27ac) after membrane depolarization of cortical neurons functions to regulate activity-dependent transcription. A subset of these enhancers appears to require binding of FOS, which was previously thought to bind primarily to promoters. These findings suggest that FOS functions at enhancers to control activity-dependent gene programs that are critical for nervous system function and provide a resource of functional cis-regulatory elements that may give insight into the genetic variants that contribute to brain development and disease.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal cancer due in part to a lack of highly robust cytotoxic or molecular-based therapies. Recent studies investigating ligand-mediated Wnt/β-catenin signaling have highlighted its importance in pancreatic cancer initiation and progression, as well as its potential as a therapeutic target in PDAC. The small-molecule ICG-001 binds cAMP-responsive element binding (CREB)-binding protein (CBP) to disrupt its interaction with β-catenin and inhibit CBP function as a coactivator of Wnt/β-catenin-mediated transcription. Given its ability to inhibit Wnt/β-catenin-mediated transcription in vitro and in vivo, as well as its efficacy in preclinical models of colorectal cancer and other Wnt-driven diseases, we examined ICG-001 and its potential role as a therapeutic in PDAC. ICG-001 alone significantly inhibited anchorage-dependent and -independent growth of multiple PDAC lines, and augmented in vitro growth inhibition when used in combination with gemcitabine. ICG-001 had only variable modest effects on PDAC apoptosis and instead mediated PDAC growth inhibition primarily through robust induction of G₁ cell-cycle arrest. These effects, however, seemed decoupled from its inhibition of Wnt/β-catenin-mediated transcription. DNA microarrays performed on PDAC cells in the context of ICG-001 treatment revealed ICG-001 altered the expression of several genes with well-established roles in DNA replication and cell-cycle progression, including direct actions on SKP2 and CDKN1A. ICG-001 also significantly prolonged survival in an in vivo orthotopic xenograft model of PDAC, indicating ICG-001 or derived compounds that disrupt CBP activity are potentially useful small-molecule therapeutics for pancreatic cancer.
The neural mechanisms underlying the attainment of fear memory accuracy for appropriate discriminative responses to aversive and nonaversive stimuli are unclear. Considerable evidence indicates that coactivator of transcription and histone acetyltransferase cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) binding protein (CBP) is critically required for normal neural function. CBP hypofunction leads to severe psychopathological symptoms in human and cognitive abnormalities in genetic mutant mice with severity dependent on the neural locus and developmental time of the gene inactivation. Here, we showed that an acute hypofunction of CBP in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) results in a disruption of fear memory accuracy in mice. In addition, interruption of CREB function in the mPFC also leads to a deficit in auditory discrimination of fearful stimuli. While mice with deficient CBP/CREB signaling in the mPFC maintain normal responses to aversive stimuli, they exhibit abnormal responses to similar but nonrelevant stimuli when compared to control animals. These data indicate that improvement of fear memory accuracy involves mPFC-dependent suppression of fear responses to nonrelevant stimuli. Evidence from a context discriminatory task and a newly developed task that depends on the ability to distinguish discrete auditory cues indicated that CBP-dependent neural signaling within the mPFC circuitry is an important component of the mechanism for disambiguating the meaning of fear signals with two opposing values: aversive and nonaversive.
Small-molecule inhibitors that target bromodomains outside of the bromodomain and extra-terminal (BET) sub-family are lacking. Here, we describe highly potent and selective ligands for the bromodomain module of the human lysine acetyl transferase CBP/p300, developed from a series of 5-isoxazolyl-benzimidazoles. Our starting point was a fragment hit, which was optimized into a more potent and selective lead using parallel synthesis employing Suzuki couplings, benzimidazole-forming reactions, and reductive aminations. The selectivity of the lead compound against other bromodomain family members was investigated using a thermal stability assay, which revealed some inhibition of the structurally related BET family members. To address the BET selectivity issue, X-ray crystal structures of the lead compound bound to the CREB binding protein (CBP) and the first bromodomain of BRD4 (BRD4(1)) were used to guide the design of more selective compounds. The crystal structures obtained revealed two distinct binding modes. By varying the aryl substitution pattern and developing conformationally constrained analogues, selectivity for CBP over BRD4(1) was increased. The optimized compound is highly potent (Kd = 21 nM) and selective, displaying 40-fold selectivity over BRD4(1). Cellular activity was demonstrated using fluorescence recovery after photo-bleaching (FRAP) and a p53 reporter assay. The optimized compounds are cell-active and have nanomolar affinity for CBP/p300; therefore, they should be useful in studies investigating the biological roles of CBP and p300 and to validate the CBP and p300 bromodomains as therapeutic targets.
Pituitary-secreted luteinizing hormone (LH) induces ovulation by activating an extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) cascade. However, little is known regarding the ERK1/2 downstream effectors that are involved in regulating rapid, transient expression of LH-target gene in ovulatory follicles. By comparing the gene expression profiles of LH-stimulated wild type with ERK1/2-deleted ovarian granulosa cells (GCs), we identified Cited4 as a previously unknown LH target gene during ovulation. LH induced Cited4 expression in pre-ovulatory follicles in an ERK1/2-dependent manner. CITED4 formed an endogenous protein complex and docked on the promoters of LH and ERK1/2 target genes. Both CITED4 expression and CBP acetyltransferase activity leading to histone acetylation were indispensable for LH-induced ovulation-related events. LH induced dynamic histone acetylation changes in pre-ovulatory GCs, including the acetylation of histone H2B (Lys5) and H3 (Lys9). This was essential for the rapid responses and dramatic increases of LH target gene expressions by the ordered activation of ERK1/2 and CITED4-CBP. In addition, histone deacetylases (HDACs) antagonized CITED4-CBP to turn off expression of these genes after exposure to LH. Thus, we determined that CITED4 was a novel LH and ERK1/2 target for triggering ovulation. These results support the proposition that LH induces rapid, significant gene expression in pre-ovulatory follicles by modulating histone acetylation status.
Cell transformation is clearly linked to epigenetic changes. However, the role of the histone-modifying enzymes in this process is still poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the contribution of the histone acetyltransferase (HAT) enzymes to Ras-mediated transformation. Our results demonstrated that lysine acetyltransferase 5, also known as Tip60, facilitates histone acetylation of bulk chromatin in Ras-transformed cells. As a consequence, global H4 acetylation (H4K8ac and H4K12ac) increases in Ras-transformed cells, rendering a more decompacted chromatin than in parental cells. Furthermore, low levels of CREB-binding protein (CBP) lead to hypoacetylation of retinoblastoma 1 (Rb1) and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1B (Cdkn1b or p27Kip1) tumour suppressor gene promoters to facilitate Ras-mediated transformation. In agreement with these data, overexpression of Cbp counteracts Ras transforming capability in a HAT-dependent manner. Altogether our results indicate that CBP and Tip60 coordinate histone acetylation at both local and global levels to facilitate Ras-induced transformation.
Genistein, an isoflavone present in soy products, has chemopreventive effects on mammary carcinogenesis. In the present study, we have investigated the effects of genistein on phorbol ester-induced expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) that plays an important role in the pathophysiology of inflammation-associated carcinogenesis. Pretreatment of cultured human breast epithelial (MCF10A) cells with genistein reduced COX-2 expression induced by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). There are multiple lines of evidence supporting that the induction of COX-2 is regulated by the eukaryotic transcription factor NF-κB. Genistein failed to inhibit TPA-induced nuclear translocation and DNA binding of NF-κB as well as degradation of IκB. However, genistein abrogated the TPA-induced transcriptional activity of NF-κB as determined by the luciferase reporter gene assay. Genistein inhibited phosphorylation of the p65 subunit of NF-κB and its interaction with cAMP regulatory element-binding protein-binding protein (CBP)/p300 and TATA-binding protein (TBP). TPA-induced NF-κB phosphorylation was abolished by pharmacological inhibition of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Likewise, pharmacologic inhibition or dominant negative mutation of ERK suppressed phosphorylation of p65. The above findings, taken together, suggest that genistein inhibits TPA-induced COX-2 expression in MCF10A cells by blocking ERK-mediated phosphorylation of p65 and its subsequent interaction with CBP and TBP.
Hypoxia has been reported to regulate both stem cell maintenance and differentiation. Wnt signaling is also a key regulator in stem cells. The recent discovery of functional cross-regulation between the Wnt pathway and HIF-1α/HIF-2α signaling further highlights the complexity of the role of hypoxia in the regulation of stem cells. In this report we reveal that human CML cell lines treated under hypoxic conditions increase the percentage of leukemia stem/initiating-like cells, as judged by surface marker expression, colony forming ability and quiescence. We demonstrate that differential usage of the Kat3 coactivators, CREBBP/Creb Binding Protein (CBP) and EP300 (p300) by catenin, with increased CBP/catenin signaling at the expense of p300/catenin signaling, is mechanistically correlated with the increase in the leukemia stem/initiating-like population. A specific small molecule inhibitor of CBP/catenin dependent transcription, ICG-001, can reverse these effects further demonstrating the critical involvement of CBP/catenin signaling in enhancing and maintaining the leukemia stem/initiating-like cell population under hypoxic conditions.
Despite a regain of interest recently in ERK3 kinase signaling, the molecular regulations of both ERK3 gene expression and protein kinase activity are still largely unknown. While it is shown that disruption of ERK3 gene causes neonatal lethality, cell type-specific functions of ERK3 signaling remain to be explored. In this study, we report that ERK3 gene expression is upregulated by cytokines through c-Jun in endothelial cells; c-Jun binds to the ERK3 gene and regulates its transcription. We further reveal a new role for ERK3 in regulating endothelial cell migration, proliferation and tube formation by upregulating SRC-3/SP-1-mediated VEGFR2 expression. The underlying molecular mechanism involves ERK3-stimulated formation of a transcriptional complex involving coactivator SRC-3, transcription factor SP-1 and the secondary coactivator CBP. Taken together, our study identified a molecular regulatory mechanism of ERK3 gene expression and revealed a previously unknown role of ERK3 in regulating endothelial cell functions.
To investigate the correlation among p300, CBP and MLL expression and the clinicopathological characteristics in resected SCLC patients.
Two hundred and twenty-two resected SCLC patients were included in this study. We evaluated p300, CBP and MLL expression by immunohistochemistry.
Patients with high p300 expression had shorter OS and DFS than those with low p300 expression (p = 0.01; p = 0.009, respectively). The patients with CBP-positive tumors had significantly lower OS and DFS than those with CBP-negative tumors (p = 0.005 and p = 0.007, respectively). Moreover, the p300- and CBP-positive (+) group had a significantly poor OS and DFS. The multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that high p300 and CBP expression are independent markers of poor overall survival (p = 0.006; p = 0.017, respectively) in operable SCLC patients.
High p300 and CBP expression are independent prognostic markers of poor overall survival for resected SCLC patients. The combination of p300 and CBP expression may be useful in identifying patients with increased risks of cancer recurrence of SCLC.
The thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) is a multifunctional enzyme, which is essential for embryonic development. It mediates the base excision repair (BER) of G:T and G:U DNA mismatches arising from the deamination of 5-methyl cytosine (5-MeC) and cytosine, respectively. Recent studies have pointed at a role of TDG during the active demethylation of 5-MeC within CpG islands. TDG interacts with the histone acetylase CREB-binding protein (CBP) to activate CBP-dependent transcription. In addition, TDG also interacts with the retinoic acid receptor α (RARα), resulting in the activation of RARα target genes. Here we provide evidence for the existence of a functional ternary complex containing TDG, CBP and activated RARα. Using global transcriptome profiling, we uncover a coupling of de novo methylation-sensitive and RA-dependent transcription, which coincides with a significant subset of CBP target genes. The introduction of a point mutation in TDG, which neither affects overall protein structure nor BER activity, leads to a significant loss in ternary complex stability, resulting in the deregulation of RA targets involved in cellular networks associated with DNA replication, recombination and repair. We thus demonstrate for the first time a direct coupling of TDG's epigenomic and transcription regulatory function through ternary complexes with CBP and RARα.
Adult blood cell production or definitive hematopoiesis requires the transcription factor c-Myb. The closely related KAT3 histone acetyltransferases CBP (CREBBP) and p300 (EP300) bind c-Myb through their KIX domains and mice homozygous for a p300 KIX domain mutation exhibit multiple blood defects. Perplexingly, mice homozygous for the same KIX domain mutation in CBP have normal blood. Here we test the hypothesis that the CBP KIX domain contributes subordinately to hematopoiesis via a genetic interaction with c-Myb. We assessed hematopoiesis in mice bearing compound mutations of c-Myb and/or the KIX domains of CBP and p300, and measured the effect of KIX domain mutations on c-Myb-dependent gene expression. We found that in the context of a p300 KIX mutation, the CBP KIX domain mutation affects platelets, B cells, T cells, and red cells. Gene interaction (epistasis) analysis provides mechanistic evidence that blood defects in KIX mutant mice are consistent with reduced c-Myb and KIX interaction. Lastly, we demonstrated that the CBP and p300 KIX domains contribute to both c-Myb-dependent gene activation and repression. Together these results suggest that the KIX domains of CBP, and especially p300, are principal mediators of c-Myb-dependent gene activation and repression that is required for definitive hematopoiesis.
MicroRNAs are extensively involved in the pathogenesis of major cardiovascular diseases by suppressing target gene expression. Recent studies have reported that microRNA-22 (miR-22) may be implicated in ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) induced myocardial injury. However, the specific function of miR-22 in myocardial I/R injury is far from clear nowadays. The present study was designed to determine the role of miR-22 in myocardial I/R injury and investigate the underlying cardio-protective mechanism. The rat myocardial I/R injury model was induced by occluding the left anterior descending coronary artery for 30 min followed by 12 h reperfusion. As predicted, adenovirus-mediated miR-22 overexpression markedly reduced the release of creatine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase, infarct size and cardiomyocytes apoptosis. Moreover, CREB binding protein (CBP) as a potential miR-22 target by bioinformatics was significantly inhibited after miR-22 transfection. We also found that p53 acetylation activity, pro-apoptotic related genes Bax and p21 levels were all decreased associated with the down-regulation of CBP. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that miR-22 could inhibit apoptosis of cardiomyocytes through one of its targets, CBP. Thus, miR-22 may constitute a new therapeutic target for the prevention of myocardial I/R injury.
Lysine acetyltransferases (KATs), p300 (KAT3B), and its close homologue CREB-binding protein (KAT3A) are probably the most widely studied KATs with well documented roles in various cellular processes. Hence, the dysfunction of p300 may result in the dysregulation of gene expression leading to the manifestation of many disorders. The acetyltransferase activity of p300/CREB-binding protein is therefore considered as a target for new generation therapeutics. We describe here a natural compound, plumbagin (RTK1), isolated from Plumbago rosea root extract, that inhibits histone acetyltransferase activity potently in vivo. Interestingly, RTK1 specifically inhibits the p300-mediated acetylation of p53 but not the acetylation by another acetyltransferase, p300/CREB-binding protein -associated factor, PCAF, in vivo. RTK1 inhibits p300 histone acetyltransferase activity in a noncompetitive manner. Docking studies and site-directed mutagenesis of the p300 histone acetyltransferase domain suggest that a single hydroxyl group of RTK1 makes a hydrogen bond with the lysine 1358 residue of this domain. In agreement with this, we found that indeed the hydroxyl group-substituted plumbagin derivatives lost the acetyltransferase inhibitory activity. This study describes for the first time the chemical entity (hydroxyl group) required for the inhibition of acetyltransferase activity.
Investigations of folate-mediated one-carbon metabolism (FOCM) genes and gene-nutrient interactions with respect to colorectal cancer (CRC) risk are limited to candidate polymorphisms and dietary folate. This study comprehensively investigated associations between genetic variants in FOCM and CRC risk and whether the FOCM nutrient status modified these associations.
Two hundred eighty-eight candidate and tagging single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 30 FOCM genes were genotyped for 821 incident CRC case-control matched pairs in the Women's Health Initiative Observational Study cohort. FOCM biomarkers (red blood cell [RBC] folate, plasma folate, pyridoxal-5'-phosphate [PLP], vitamin B12, and homocysteine) and self-reported alcohol consumption were measured at the baseline. Conditional logistic regression was implemented; effect modification was examined on the basis of known enzyme-nutrient relations.
Statistically significant associations were observed between CRC risk and functionally defined candidate SNPs of methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase 1 (MTHFD1; K134R), 5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homocysteine methyltransferase reductase (MTRR; P450R), and PR domain containing 2 with ZNF domain (PRDM2; S450N) and a literature candidate SNP of thymidylate synthase (TYMS; g.676789A>T; nominal P < .05). In addition, suggestive associations were noted for tagging SNPs in cystathionine-β-synthase (CBS), dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), DNA (cytosine-5-)-methyltransferase 3β (DNMT3B), methionine adenosyltransferase I α (MAT1A), MTHFD1, and MTRR (nominal P < .05; adjusted P, not significant). Significant interactions between nutrient biomarkers and candidate polymorphisms were observed for 1) plasma/RBC folate and folate hydrolase 1 (FOLH1), paraoxonase 1 (PON1), transcobalamin II (TCN2), DNMT1, and DNMT3B; 2) plasma PLP and TYMS TS3; 3) plasma B12 and betaine-homocysteine S-methyltransferase 2 (BHMT2); and 4) homocysteine and methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) and alanyl-transfer RNA synthetase (AARS).
Genetic variants in FOCM genes are associated with CRC risk among postmenopausal women. FOCM nutrients continue to emerge as effect modifiers of genetic influences on CRC risk. Cancer 2015;121:3684-3691. © 2015 American Cancer Society.
Can the induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from women with primary ovarian insufficiency (POI) differentiate into germ cells for potential disease modeling in vitro?
The iPSC lines derived from POI patients with 46, X, del(X)(q26) or 46, X, del(X)(q26)9qh+ could differentiate into germ cells and expressed lower levels of genes in the deletion region of the X chromosome.
iPSC technology has been envisioned as an approach for generating patient-specific stem cells for disease modeling and for developing novel therapies. It has also been confirmed that iPSCs differentiate into germ cells.
We compared the differentiation ability of germ cells and the gene expression level of germ cell-related genes in the X chromosome deletion region of iPSC lines derived from POI patients (n = 2) with an iPSC line derived from normal fibroblasts (n = 1).
We established three iPSC lines from two patients with partial Xq deletion-induced POI and normal fibroblasts by overexpressing four factors: octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (OCT4), sex-determining region Y-box 2 (SOX2), Nanog homeobox (NANOG), and lin-28 homolog (LIN28), using lentiviral vectors. We then generated stable-transfected fluorescent reporter cell lines under the control of the Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp box polypeptide 4 (DDX4, also called VASA) promoter, and selected clonal derived sublines. We induced subline differentiation into germ cells by adding Wnt3a (30 ng/ml) and bone morphogenetic protein 4 (100 ng/ml). After 12 days of differentiation, green fluorescent protein (GFP)-positive and GFP-negative cells were isolated via fluorescence-activated cell sorting and analyzed for endogenous VASA protein (immunostaining) and for germ cell markers and genes expressed in the deleted region of the X chromosome (quantitative RT-PCR).
The POI- and normal fibroblast-derived iPSCs had typical self-renewal and pluripotency characteristics. After stable transfection with the VASA-GFP construct, the sublines POI1-iPS-V.1, POI2-iPS-V.1 and hEF-iPS-V.1 produced green fluorescent cells in the differentiated cultures, and the percentage of GFP-positive cells increased over the 12 days of differentiation to a maximum of 6.9 ± 0.33%, 5.3 ± 0.57% and 8.5 ± 0.29%, respectively, of the total cell population. Immunohistochemical analysis confirmed that endogenous VASA was enriched in the GFP-positive cells. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR revealed significantly higher expression of germ cell markers [PR domain containing 1, with ZNF domain (PRDM1, BLIMP1), developmental pluripotency-associated 3 (DPPA3, STELLA), deleted in azoospermia-like (DAZL), and VASA (DDX4)] in GFP-positive cells than in GFP-negative cells. Moreover, the GFP-positive cells from POI-iPSCs had reduced expression of the family with sequence similarity 122C (FAM122C), inhibitor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells, kinase gamma (IKBKG), and RNA binding motif protein, X-linked (RBMX), genes located in the deleted region of the X chromosome and that are highly expressed in differentiated germ cells, compared with cells from normal iPSCs.
Gene expression profiling indicated that the germ cells differentiated from POI-iPSCs were pre-meiotic. Therefore, how the differentiated primordial germ cells could progress further to meiosis and form follicles remains to be determined in the study of POI.
Our results might provide an in vitro model for studying germ cell development in patients with POI.
This work was supported by grants from the Major State Basic Research Development Program of China (No. 2012CB944901), the National Science Foundation of China (No. 81222007 and 81471432), the Program for New Century Excellent Talents in University and the Fundamental Research Funds for Central Universities (No. 721500003). The authors have no competing interests to declare.
Not applicable.
Transforming growth factor-β activated kinase-1 (TAK1) is a key regulatory molecule in toll-like receptor (TLR), interleukin-1 (IL-1), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathways. The activation of TAK1 is specifically regulated by two TAK1-binding proteins, TAB1 and TAB2. However, the roles of TAB1 and TAB2 in fish have not been reported to date. In the present study, TAB1 (CiTAB1) and TAB2 (CiTAB2) in grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) were identified and characterized, and their expression profiles were analyzed after fish were infected with the pathogenic ciliate Ichthyophthirius multifiliis. The full-length CiTAB1 cDNA is 1949 bp long with an open reading frame (ORF) of 1497 bp that encodes a putative protein of 498 amino acids containing a typical PP2Cc domain. The full-length CiTAB2 cDNA is 2967 bp long and contains an ORF of 2178 bp encoding a putative protein of 725 amino acids. Protein structure analysis revealed that CiTAB2 consists of three main structural domains: an N-terminal CUE domain, a coiled-coil domain, and a C-terminal ZnF domain. Multiple sequence alignment showed that CiTAB1 and CiTAB2 share high sequence identity with other known TAB1 and TAB2 proteins, and several conserved phosphorylation sites and an O-GlcNAc site were deduced in CiTAB1. Phylogenetic tree analysis demonstrated that CiTAB1 and CiTAB2 have the closest evolutionary relationship with TAB1 and TAB2 of Danio rerio, respectively. CiTAB1 and CiTAB2 were both widely expressed in all examined tissues with the highest levels in the heart and liver, respectively. After infection with I. multifiliis, the expressions of CiTAB1 and CiTAB2 were both significantly up-regulated in all tested tissues at most time points, which indicates that these proteins may be involved in the host immune response against I. multifiliis infection.
Low cardiorespiratory fitness is a powerful predictor of morbidity and cardiovascular mortality. In 473 sedentary adults, all whites, from 99 families of the Health, Risk Factors, Exercise Training, and Genetics (HERITAGE) Family Study, the heritability of gains in maximal O(2) uptake (VO(2max)) after exposure to a standardized 20-wk exercise program was estimated at 47%. A genome-wide association study based on 324,611 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) was undertaken to identify SNPs associated with improvements in VO(2max) Based on single-SNP analysis, 39 SNPs were associated with the gains with P < 1.5 × 10(-4). Stepwise multiple regression analysis of the 39 SNPs identified a panel of 21 SNPs that accounted for 49% of the variance in VO(2max) trainability. Subjects who carried ≤9 favorable alleles at these 21 SNPs improved their VO(2max) by 221 ml/min, whereas those who carried ≥19 of these alleles gained, on average, 604 ml/min. The strongest association was with rs6552828, located in the acyl-CoA synthase long-chain member 1 (ACSL1) gene, which accounted by itself for ~6% of the training response of VO(2max). The genes nearest to the SNPs that were the strongest predictors were PR domain-containing 1 with ZNF domain (PRDM1); glutamate receptor, ionotropic, N-methyl-D-aspartate 3A (GRIN3A); K(+) channel, voltage gated, subfamily H, member 8 (KCNH8); and zinc finger protein of the cerebellum 4 (ZIC4). The association with the SNP nearest to ZIC4 was replicated in 40- to 65-yr-old, sedentary, overweight, and dyslipidemic subjects trained in Studies of a Targeted Risk Reduction Intervention Through Defined Exercise (STRRIDE; n = 183). Two SNPs were replicated in sedentary obese white women exercise trained in the Dose Response to Exercise (DREW) study (n = 112): rs1956197 near dishevelled associated activator of morphogenesis 1 (DAAM1) and rs17117533 in the vicinity of necdin (NDN). The association of SNPs rs884736 in the calmodulin-binding transcription activator 1 (CAMTA1) locus and rs17581162 ~68 kb upstream from regulator of G protein signaling 18 (RGS18) with the gains in VO(2max) in HERITAGE whites were replicated in HERITAGE blacks (n = 247). These genomic predictors of the response of Vo(2max) to regular exercise provide new targets for the study of the biology of fitness and its adaptation to regular exercise. Large-scale replication studies are warranted.
During vertebrate development the dorsal gastrula or Spemann-Mangold organizer orchestrates axis formation largely by limiting the ventralizing and posteriorizing activity of bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs). In mouse and Xenopus laevis, genes encoding the zinc finger transcriptional repressor Prdm1/Blimp1 (PR domain containing 1, with ZNF domain; previously named B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein 1) were recently shown to be expressed in the visceral endoderm and anterior endomesoderm, respectively, and the prechordal plate of gastrula stage embryos. Later in development Prdm1/Blimp1 is expressed in many other tissues, including pharyngeal arches, limb buds, otic vesicles, photoreceptor cell layer, slow muscle and cloaca. Based on misexpression and dominant-negative studies, Prdm1/Blimp1 was proposed to promote anterior endomesoderm and head development in Xenopus laevis. Here we report the isolation and functional characterization of zebrafish prdm1 exhibiting a dynamic and evolutionarily conserved expression pattern. Misexpression of prdm1 inhibits the formation of dorsoanterior structures and reduces expression of chordin, which encodes a BMP antagonist. Conversely, interference with Prdm1 translation using antisense morpholino oligonucleotides, increases chordin expression, while reducing expression of Bmp genes, and consequently dorsalizing the embryo. At the end of the gastrula period, prdm1 morphant embryos have enlarged animal-vegetal and anteroposterior embryonic axes. This altered embryo morphology is associated with augmented extension movements of dorsal tissues and normal posterior migration of ventral tissues. Additionally, Prdm1 activity is essential for proper development of slow muscle, the photoreceptor cell layer, branchial arches and pectoral fins. Our studies reveal essential roles for prdm1 in limiting the function of the gastrula organizer and regulating cell fate specification and morphogenetic processes in precise correspondence with its intricate expression pattern.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) on sporadic Parkinson's disease (sPD) are mainly conducted in European and American populations at present, and the Han populations of Chinese mainland (HPCM) almost have not been studied yet. Here, we conducted a pooling GWAS combining a pathway analysis with 862,198 autosomal single nucleotide polymorphisms of IlluminaHumanOmniZhongHua-8 in 250 sPD and 250 controls from HPCM precluded toxicant exposure, age, and heavy coffee drinking habit interference. We revealed that among the 22 potential loci implicated, PRDM2/KIAA1026 (kgp8090149), TSG1/MANEA (kgp154172), PDE10A (kgp8130520), MDGA2 (rs9323124), ATPBD4/LOC100288892 (kgp11333367), ZFP64/TSHZ2 (kgp4156164), PAQR3/ARD1B (kgp9482779), FLJ23172/FNDC3B (kgp760898), C18orf1 (kgp348599), FLJ43860/NCRNA00051 (kgp4105983), CYP1B1/C2orf58 (kgp11353523), WNT9A/LOC728728 (rs849898), ANXA1/LOC100130911 (rs10746953), FLJ35379/LOC100132423 (kgp9550589), PLEKHN1 (kgp7172368), DMRT2/SMARCA2 (kgp10769919), ZNF396/INO80C (rs1362858), C3orf67/LOC339902 (rs6783485), LOC285194/IGSF11 (rs1879553), FGF10/MRPS30 (rs13153459), BARX1/PTPDC1 (kgp6542803), and COL5 A2 (rs11186), the peak significance was at the kgp4105983 of FLJ43860 gene in chromosome 8, the first top strongest associated locus with sPD was PRDM2 (kgp8090149) in chromosome 1, and the 24 pathways including 100 significantly associated genes were strongly associated with sPD from HPCM. The 40 genes were shared by at least two pathways. The most possible associated pathways with sPD were axon guidance, ECM-receptor interaction, neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction, tight junction, focal adhesion, gap junction, long-term depression, drug metabolism-cytochrome P450, adherens junction, endocytosis, and protein digestion and absorption. Our results indicated that these loci, pathways, and their related genes might be involved in the pathogenesis of sPD from HPCM and provided some novel evidences for further searching the genetic pathogenesis of sPD.
Adult stem cell quiescence is critical to ensure regeneration while minimizing tumorigenesis. Epigenetic regulation contributes to cell cycle control and differentiation, but few regulators of the chromatin state in quiescent cells are known. Here we report that the tumor suppressor PRDM2/RIZ, an H3K9 methyltransferase, is enriched in quiescent muscle stem cells in vivo and controls reversible quiescence in cultured myoblasts. We find that PRDM2 associates with >4400 promoters in G0 myoblasts, 55% of which are also marked with H3K9me2 and enriched for myogenic, cell cycle and developmental regulators. Knockdown of PRDM2 alters histone methylation at key promoters such as Myogenin and CyclinA2 (CCNA2), and subverts the quiescence program via global de-repression of myogenesis, and hyper-repression of the cell cycle. Further, PRDM2 acts upstream of the repressive PRC2 complex in G0. We identify a novel G0-specific bivalent chromatin domain in the CCNA2 locus. PRDM2 protein interacts with the PRC2 protein EZH2 and regulates its association with the bivalent domain in the CCNA2 gene. Our results suggest that induction of PRDM2 in G0 ensures that two antagonistic programs-myogenesis and the cell cycle-while stalled, are poised for reactivation. Together, these results indicate that epigenetic regulation by PRDM2 preserves key functions of the quiescent state, with implications for stem cell self-renewal.
Dopamine agonists (DAs) are the first-line treatment for prolactinomas, which account for 25-30% of functioning pituitary adenomas, and bromocriptine (BRC) is the only commercially available DAs in China. However, tumors are resistant to therapy in 5-18% of patients.
The exomes of six responsive prolactinomas and six resistant prolactinomas were analyzed by whole-exome sequencing.
Using stringent variant calling and filtering parameters, ten somatic variants that were mainly associated with DNA repair or protein metabolic processes were identified. New resistant variants were identified in multiple genes including PRDM2, PRG4, MUC4, DSPP, DPCR1, RP1L1, MX2, POTEF, C1orf170, and KRTAP10-3. The expression of these genes was then quantified by real-time reverse-transcription PCR (RT-qPCR) in 12 prolactinomas and 3 normal pituitary glands. The mRNA levels of PRDM2 were approximately five-fold lower in resistant prolactinomas than in responsive tumors (p < 0.05). PRDM2 protein levels were lower in resistant prolactinomas than in responsive tumors, as determined by Western blotting and immunohistochemical analysis (p < 0.05). Overexpression of PRDM2 upregulated dopamine receptor D2 (D2DR) and inhibited the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 in MMQ cells. PRDM2 showed a synergistic effect with BRC on the inhibition of prolactin (PRL) secretion and MMQ cell viability, and low PRDM2 expression was associated with tumor recurrence.
PRDM2 downregulation may play a role in dopamine-agonist resistance and tumor recurrence in prolactinomas.
Cell differentiation is controlled by specific transcription factors. The functions and expression levels of these transcription factors are regulated by epigenetic modifications, such as histone modifications and cytosine methylation of the genome. In tendon tissue, tendon-specific transcription factors have been shown to play functional roles in the regulation of tenocyte differentiation. However, the effects of epigenetic modifications on gene expression and differentiation in tenocytes are unclear. In this study, we investigated the epigenetic regulation of tenocyte differentiation, focusing on the enzymes mediating histone 3 lysine 9 (H3K9) methylation. In primary mouse tenocytes, six H3K9 methyltransferase (H3K9MTase) genes, i.e., G9a, G9a-like protein (GLP), PR domain zinc finger protein 2 (PRDM2), SUV39H1, SUV39H2, and SETDB1/ESET were all expressed, with increased mRNA levels observed during tenocyte differentiation. In mouse embryos, G9a and Prdm2 mRNAs were expressed in tenocyte precursor cells, which were overlapped with or were adjacent to cells expressing a tenocyte-specific marker, tenomodulin. Using tenocytes isolated from G9a-flox/flox mice, we deleted G9a by infecting the cells with Cre-expressing adenoviruses. Proliferation of G9a-null tenocytes was significantly decreased compared with that of control cells infected with GFP-expressing adenoviruses. Moreover, the expression levels of tendon transcription factors gene, i.e., Scleraxis (Scx), Mohawk (Mkx), Egr1, Six1, and Six2 were all suppressed in G9a-null tenocytes. The tendon-related genes Col1a1, tenomodulin, and periostin were also downregulated. Consistent with this, Western blot analysis showed that tenomodulin protein expression was significantly suppressed by G9a deletion. These results suggested that expression of the H3K9MTase G9a was essential for the differentiation and growth of tenocytes and that H3K9MTases may play important roles in tendinogenesis.
RIZ (retinoblastoma protein-interacting zinc finger protein), also denoted PRDM2, is a transcriptional regulator and tumor suppressor. It was initially identified because of its ability to interact with another well-established tumor suppressor, the retinoblastoma protein (Rb). A short motif, IRCDE, in the acidic region (AR) of RIZ was reported to play an important role in the interaction with the pocket domain of Rb. The IRCDE motif is similar to a consensus Rb-binding sequence LXCXE (where X denotes any amino acid) that is found in several viral Rb-inactivating oncoproteins. To improve our understanding of the molecular basis of binding of Rb to RIZ, we investigated the interaction between purified recombinant AR and the pocket domain of Rb using nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, isothermal titration calorimetry, and fluorescence anisotropy experiments. We show that AR is intrinsically disordered and that it binds the pocket domain with submicromolar affinity. We also demonstrate that the interaction between AR and the pocket domain is mediated primarily by the short stretch of residues containing the IRCDE motif and that the contribution of other parts of AR to the interaction with the pocket domain is minimal. Overall, our data provide clear evidence that RIZ is one of the few cellular proteins that can interact directly with the LXCXE-binding cleft on Rb.
DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1), a key enzyme mediating DNA methylation, is known to be elevated in various cancers, including the mouse lung tumors induced by the tobacco-specific carcinogen 4-(Methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK). However, it is not known whether DNMT1 expression is induced right after NNK treatment and how DNMT1 expression varies throughout lung tumorigenesis. In the present study, we found that administration of NNK to A/J mice caused elevation of DNMT1 in bronchial epithelial cells at Days 1, 3, and 14 after NNK treatment. DNMT1 elevation at Day 1 was accompanied by an increase in phospho-histone H2AX (γ-H2AX) and phospho-AKT (p-AKT). At Weeks 5 to 20, NNK-induced DNMT1 in lung tissues was in lower levels than the early stages, but was highly elevated in lung tumors at Week 20. In addition, the early induction of p-AKT and γ-H2AX as well as cleaved caspase-3 in NNK-treated lung tissues was not detected at Weeks 5 to 20 but was elevated in lung tumors. In concordance with DNMT1 elevation, promoter hypermethylation of tumor suppressor genes Cdh13, Prdm2, and Runx3 was observed in lung tissues at Day 3 and in lung tumors. Treatment by EGCG attenuated DNMT1, p-AKT, and γ-H2AX inductions at Days 1 and 3 and inhibited lung tumorigenesis.
Tissue-specific gene expression is subjected to epigenetic and genetic regulation. Posttranslational modifications of histone tails alter the accessibility of nuclear proteins to DNA, thus affecting the activity of the regulatory complex of nuclear proteins. Methylation at histone 3 lysine 9 (H3K9) is a crucial modification that affects gene expression and cell differentiation. H3K9 is known to have 0-3 methylation states, and these four methylated states are determined by the expression of sets of histone methyltransferases. During development, teeth are formed through mutual interactions between the mesenchyme and epithelium via a process that is subjected to the epigenetic regulation. In this study, we examined the expression of all H3K9 methyltransferases (H3K9MTases) during mouse tooth development. We found that four H3K9MTases-G9a, Glp, Prdm2, and Suv39h1-were highly expressed in the tooth germ, with expression peaks at around embryonic days 16.5 and 17.5 in mice. Immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization analyses revealed that all four H3K9MTases were enriched in the mesenchyme more than in the epithelium. Substrates of H3K9MTases, H3K9me1, H3K9me2, and H3K9me3 were also enriched in the mesenchyme. Taken together, these data suggested that coordinated expression of four H3K9MTases in the dental mesenchyme might play important roles in tooth development.
miR-17-92 is an oncogenic miRNA cluster implicated in the development of several cancers; however, it remains unknown whether the miR-17-92 cluster is able to regulate cholangiocarcinogenesis. This study was designed to investigate the biological functions and molecular mechanisms of the miR-17-92 cluster in cholangiocarcinoma. In situ hybridization and quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that the miR-17-92 cluster is highly expressed in human cholangiocarcinoma cells compared with the nonneoplastic biliary epithelial cells. Forced overexpression of the miR-17-92 cluster or its members, miR-92a and miR-19a, in cultured human cholangiocarcinoma cells enhanced tumor cell proliferation, colony formation, and invasiveness, in vitro. Overexpression of the miR-17-92 cluster or miR-92a also enhanced cholangiocarcinoma growth in vivo in hairless outbred mice with severe combined immunodeficiency (SHO-Prkdc(scid)Hr(hr)). The tumor-suppressor, phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN), was identified as a bona fide target of both miR-92a and miR-19a in cholangiocarcinoma cells via sequence prediction, 3' untranslated region luciferase activity assay, and Western blot analysis. Accordingly, overexpression of the PTEN open reading frame protein (devoid of 3' untranslated region) prevented miR-92a- or miR-19a-induced cholangiocarcinoma cell growth. Microarray analysis revealed additional targets of the miR-17-92 cluster in human cholangiocarcinoma cells, including APAF-1 and PRDM2. Moreover, we observed that the expression of the miR-17-92 cluster is regulated by IL-6/Stat3, a key oncogenic signaling pathway pivotal in cholangiocarcinogenesis. Taken together, our findings disclose a novel IL-6/Stat3-miR-17-92 cluster-PTEN signaling axis that is crucial for cholangiocarcinogenesis and tumor progression.
S-Adenosyl-l-methionine (SAM) is recognized as an important cofactor in a variety of biochemical reactions. As more proteins and pathways that require SAM are discovered, it is important to establish a method to quickly identify and characterize SAM binding proteins. The affinity of S-adenosyl-l-homocysteine (SAH) for SAM binding proteins was used to design two SAH-derived capture compounds (CCs). We demonstrate interactions of the proteins COMT and SAHH with SAH-CC with biotin used in conjunction with streptavidin-horseradish peroxidase. After demonstrating SAH-dependent photo-crosslinking of the CC to these proteins, we used a CC labeled with a fluorescein tag to measure binding affinity via fluorescence anisotropy. We then used this approach to show and characterize binding of SAM to the PR domain of PRDM2, a lysine methyltransferase with putative tumor suppressor activity. We calculated the Kd values for COMT, SAHH, and PRDM2 (24.1 ± 2.2 μM, 6.0 ± 2.9 μM, and 10.06 ± 2.87 μM, respectively) and found them to be close to previously established Kd values of other SAM binding proteins. Here, we present new methods to discover and characterize SAM and SAH binding proteins using fluorescent CCs.
Appropriate DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair factor choice is essential for ensuring accurate repair outcome and genomic integrity. The factors that regulate this process remain poorly understood. Here, we identify two repressive chromatin components, the macrohistone variant macroH2A1 and the H3K9 methyltransferase and tumor suppressor PRDM2, which together direct the choice between the antagonistic DSB repair mediators BRCA1 and 53BP1. The macroH2A1/PRDM2 module mediates an unexpected shift from accessible to condensed chromatin that requires the ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM)-dependent accumulation of both proteins at DSBs in order to promote DSB-flanking H3K9 dimethylation. Remarkably, loss of macroH2A1 or PRDM2, as well as experimentally induced chromatin decondensation, impairs the retention of BRCA1, but not 53BP1, at DSBs. As a result, macroH2A1 and/or PRDM2 depletion causes epistatic defects in DSB end resection, homology-directed repair, and the resistance to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibition-all hallmarks of BRCA1-deficient tumors. Together, these findings identify dynamic, DSB-associated chromatin reorganization as a critical modulator of BRCA1-dependent genome maintenance.
To investigate the changes of expression and methylation status of PRDM2, PRDM5, PRDM16 in lung cancer cells after treatment with demethylation agent.
A549 (lung adenocarcinoma cell line), HTB-182 (lung squamous cell carcinoma cell line) and HBE (normal bronchial cell line) were treated with 5-aza-2dC. The methylation state of PRDM2, PRDM5, PRDM16 was detected by MSP. The expression of PRDM2, PRDM5, PRDM16 was detected by RT-PCR and Western blot analysis. Cell growth was detected by MTT assay.
5-aza-2-dC reduced the methylation of PRDM2, PRDM5, PRDM16 gene in A549 and HTB-182 cells but not in HBE cells. Consistently, 5-aza-2dC increased mRNA and protein expression of PRDM2, PRDM5, PRDM16 in A549 and HTB-182 cells but not in HBE cells. Furthermore, 5-aza-2dC inhibited the growth of A549 and HTB-182 cells but not HBE cells.
PRDM2, PRDM5, PRDM16 promoters are methylated and their expression is suppressed in lung cancer cells. Demethylation drug 5-aza-2dC could upregulate the expression of PRDM2, PRDM5, PRDM16 and suppress lung cancer cell growth. 5-aza-2dC has potential to be used for lung cancer therapy by epigenetic mechanism.
Human colorectal cancer cell lines are used widely to investigate tumor biology, experimental therapy, and biomarkers. However, to what extent these established cell lines represent and maintain the genetic diversity of primary cancers is uncertain. In this study, we profiled 70 colorectal cancer cell lines for mutations and DNA copy number by whole-exome sequencing and SNP microarray analyses, respectively. Gene expression was defined using RNA-Seq. Cell line data were compared with those published for primary colorectal cancers in The Cancer Genome Atlas. Notably, we found that exome mutation and DNA copy-number spectra in colorectal cancer cell lines closely resembled those seen in primary colorectal tumors. Similarities included the presence of two hypermutation phenotypes, as defined by signatures for defective DNA mismatch repair and DNA polymerase ε proofreading deficiency, along with concordant mutation profiles in the broadly altered WNT, MAPK, PI3K, TGFβ, and p53 pathways. Furthermore, we documented mutations enriched in genes involved in chromatin remodeling (ARID1A, CHD6, and SRCAP) and histone methylation or acetylation (ASH1L, EP300, EP400, MLL2, MLL3, PRDM2, and TRRAP). Chromosomal instability was prevalent in nonhypermutated cases, with similar patterns of chromosomal gains and losses. Although paired cell lines derived from the same tumor exhibited considerable mutation and DNA copy-number differences, in silico simulations suggest that these differences mainly reflected a preexisting heterogeneity in the tumor cells. In conclusion, our results establish that human colorectal cancer lines are representative of the main subtypes of primary tumors at the genomic level, further validating their utility as tools to investigate colorectal cancer biology and drug responses.
S100A4, a small calcium-binding protein belonging to the S100 protein family, is commonly overexpressed in a variety of tumor types and is widely accepted to associate with metastasis by regulating the motility and invasiveness of cancer cells. However, its biological role in lung carcinogenesis is largely unknown. In this study, we found that S100A4 was frequently overexpressed in lung cancer cells, irrespective of histological subtype. Then we performed knockdown and forced expression of S100A4 in lung cancer cell lines and found that specific knockdown of S100A4 effectively suppressed cell proliferation only in lung cancer cells with S100A4-overexpression; forced expression of S100A4 accelerated cell motility only in S100A4 low-expressing lung cancer cells. PRDM2 and VASH1, identified as novel upregulated genes by microarray after specific knockdown of S100A4 in pancreatic cancer, were also analyzed, and we found that PRDM2 was significantly upregulated after S100A4-knockdown in one of two analyzed S100A4-overexpressing lung cancer cells. Our present results suggest that S100A4 plays an important role in lung carcinogenesis by means of cell proliferation and motility by a pathway similar to that in pancreatic cancer.
The presence of furan in common cooked foods along with evidence from experimental studies that lifetime exposure to furan causes liver tumors in rats and mice has caused concern to regulatory public health agencies worldwide; however, the mechanisms of the furan-induced hepatocarcinogenicity remain unclear. The goal of the present study was to investigate whether or not long-term exposure to furan causes epigenetic alterations in rat liver. Treating of male Fisher 344 rats by gavage 5 days per week with 0, 0.92, 2.0, or 4.4 mg furan/kg body weight (bw)/day resulted in dose- and time-dependent epigenetic changes consisting of alterations in DNA methylation and histone lysine methylation and acetylation, altered expression of chromatin modifying genes, and gene-specific methylation. Specifically, exposure to furan at doses 0.92, 2.0, or 4.4 mg furan/kg bw/day caused global DNA demethylation after 360 days of treatment. There was also a sustained decrease in the levels of histone H3 lysine 9 and H4 lysine 20 trimethylation after 180 and 360 days of furan exposure, and a marked reduction of histone H3 lysine 9 and H3 lysine 56 acetylation after 360 days at 4.4 mg/kg bw/day. These histone modification changes were accompanied by a reduced expression of Suv39h1, Prdm2, and Suv4-20h2 histone methyltransferases and Ep300 and Kat2a histone acetyltransferases. Additionally, furan at 2.0 and 4.4 mg/kg bw/day induced hypermethylation-dependent down-regulation of the Rassf1a gene in the livers after 180 and 360 days. These findings indicate possible involvement of dose- and time-dependent epigenetic modifications in the furan hepatotoxicity and carcinogenicity.
DNA methylation of tumor suppressor genes (TSGs) represents a frequent and early epigenetic event with potential applications for cancer detection and disease evolution. Our aim was to examine the stratification and prognostic biomarker role of the methylation of a novel panel of TSGs in bladder cancer. The methylation status of 18 TSGs was evaluated in bladder cancer cells (n=14) and paraffin-embedded primary bladder tumors (n=61), using a methylation-specific multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification assay (MS-MLPA). Recurrence, progression, and disease-specific survival were analyzed using univariate and multivariate Cox models. PRDM2, HLTF, ID4, DLC1, BNIP3, H2AFX, CACNA1G, TGIF, and CACNA1A were discovered methylated in bladder cancer. The methylation of RUNX3 (p=0.026), TWIST1 (p=0.009), SFRP4 (p=0.002), and CCND2 (p=0.027) correlated to tumor stage. Univariate analyses indicated prognostic associations for recurrence (DLC1, SFRP5, H2AFX, CACNA1G), progression (DLC1, SFRP5, CACNA1G), disease-specific (PRDM2, DLC1, SFRP5, CACNA1G, and TIMP3), and overall survival (SFRP5 and TIMP3). In multivariate analyses, several TSGs remained as independent prognosticators for recurrence (SFRP5, H2AFX), progression (CACNA1G), and disease-specific survival (SFRP5). Thus, a novel set of TSGs was identified, frequently methylated in bladder cancer cells and tumors. TSG methylation allowed histopathologic and outcome stratification using paraffin-embedded tumors. This is clinically relevant by offering a strategy for the management of patients affected with uroepithelial neoplasias in pathology routine laboratories.
Acute myeloid leukemia with t(6;9)(p22;q34) is listed as a distinct entity in the 2008 World Health Organization classification, but little is known about the clinical implications of t(6;9)-positive myeloid leukemia in children. This international multicenter study presents the clinical and genetic characteristics of 62 pediatric patients with t(6;9)/DEK-NUP214-rearranged myeloid leukemia; 54 diagnosed as having acute myeloid leukemia, representing <1% of all childhood acute myeloid leukemia, and eight as having myelodysplastic syndrome. The t(6;9)/DEK-NUP214 was associated with relatively late onset (median age 10.4 years), male predominance (sex ratio 1.7), French-American-British M2 classification (54%), myelodysplasia (100%), and FLT3-ITD (42%). Outcome was substantially better than previously reported with a 5-year event-free survival of 32%, 5-year overall survival of 53%, and a 5-year cumulative incidence of relapse of 57%. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in first complete remission improved the 5-year event-free survival compared with chemotherapy alone (68% versus 18%; P<0.01) but not the overall survival (68% versus 54%; P=0.48). The presence of FLT3-ITD had a non-significant negative effect on 5-year overall survival compared with non-mutated cases (22% versus 62%; P=0.13). Gene expression profiling showed a unique signature characterized by significantly higher expression of EYA3, SESN1, PRDM2/RIZ, and HIST2H4 genes. In conclusion, t(6;9)/DEK-NUP214 represents a unique subtype of acute myeloid leukemia with a high risk of relapse, high frequency of FLT3-ITD, and a specific gene expression signature.
PR-Set7/Set8/KMT5a is the sole histone H4 lysine 20 monomethyltransferase (H4K20me1) in metazoans and is essential for proper cell division and genomic stability. We unexpectedly discovered that normal cellular levels of monomethylated histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9me1) were also dependent on PR-Set7, but independent of its catalytic activity. This observation suggested that PR-Set7 interacts with an H3K9 monomethyltransferase to establish the previously reported H4K20me1-H3K9me1 trans-tail 'histone code'. Here we show that PR-Set7 specifically and directly binds the C-terminus of the Riz1/PRDM2/KMT8 tumor suppressor and demonstrate that the N-terminal PR/SET domain of Riz1 preferentially monomethylates H3K9. The PR-Set7 binding domain was required for Riz1 nuclear localization and maintenance of the H4K20me1-H3K9me1 trans-tail 'histone code'. Although Riz1 can function as a repressor, Riz1/H3K9me1 was dispensable for the repression of genes regulated by PR-Set7/H4K20me1. Frameshift mutations resulting in a truncated Riz1 incapable of binding PR-Set7 occur frequently in various aggressive cancers. In these cancer cells, expression of wild-type Riz1 restored tumor suppression by decreasing proliferation and increasing apoptosis. These phenotypes were not observed in cells expressing either the Riz1 PR/SET domain or PR-Set7 binding domain indicating that Riz1 methyltransferase activity and PR-Set7 binding domain are both essential for Riz1 tumor suppressor function.
The genetic basis for Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM) remains to be clarified. Although 6q losses are commonly present, recurring gene losses in this region remain to be defined. We therefore performed whole genome sequencing (WGS) in 30 WM patients, which included germline/tumor sequencing for 10 patients. Validated somatic mutations occurring in >10% of patients included MYD88, CXCR4, and ARID1A that were present in 90%, 27%, and 17% of patients, respectively, and included the activating mutation L265P in MYD88 and warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infection, and myelokathexis-syndrome-like mutations in CXCR4 that previously have only been described in the germline. WGS also delineated copy number alterations (CNAs) and structural variants in the 10 paired patients. The CXCR4 and CNA findings were validated in independent expansion cohorts of 147 and 30 WM patients, respectively. Validated gene losses due to CNAs involved PRDM2 (93%), BTG1 (87%), HIVEP2 (77%), MKLN1 (77%), PLEKHG1 (70%), LYN (60%), ARID1B (50%), and FOXP1 (37%). Losses in PLEKHG1, HIVEP2, ARID1B, and BCLAF1 constituted the most common deletions within chromosome 6. Although no recurrent translocations were observed, in 2 patients deletions in 6q corresponded with translocation events. These studies evidence highly recurring somatic events, and provide a genomic basis for understanding the pathogenesis of WM.
It has been recently proposed by a genome-wide association study (GWAS) meta-analysis that the CCDC62 variant rs12817488 is a new risk locus associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study, we aimed to investigate the association between rs12817488 and PD in a Chinese cohort. A total of 341 PD patients and 423 matched controls were recruited in Eastern China. Our results showed that the A allele of rs12817488 was significantly associated with an aggravated risk of PD (p = 0.006) and represented a major allele in contrast to a minor one in Caucasians. Genotype distributions also differed between PD patients and controls (p = 0.011 for AA/AG/GG). Further analysis showed that the association of rs12817488 with PD only existed in females. We also investigated the protein level of CCDC62 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 41 AA or GG carriers and found an apparently higher expression in PD patients carrying the AA genotype. A potential interaction was found between two estrogen-related loci, i.e. rs12817488/CCDC62 and rs2697962/PRDM2, particularly in the female stratum. In conclusion, our study demonstrated for the first time a significant association between the rs12817488 polymorphism and PD predisposition in a Chinese population with gender variations and provides new insight regarding the variant's protein expression and estrogen-related genetic interaction.
Phosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) binding protein (4E-BP1) results in release of eIF4E, which sequentially relieves translational repression and enhances oncogenic protein synthesis. We assessed the expression of phosphorylated 4E-BP1 (p-4E-BP1) in small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) and its correlation with clinicopathological factors and patient survival. This study included 117 SCLCs, which comprised 108 primary and 9 metastatic tumor tissues. We performed immunohistochemical staining for p-4E-BP1 in 117 tumors and found that 77 (66 %) were positive for p-4E-BP1 with cytoplasmic and/or nuclear immunostaining. The positive rate of p-4E-BP1 staining was significantly higher in never smokers (p = 0.034) and metastatic tumor tissues (p = 0.027). Patients with p-4E-BP1-positive SCLC tended to have poor performance status, although the difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.087). High p-4E-BP1 expression was significantly correlated with worse overall survival (OS) in all cohorts (p = 0.016). After stratification by clinical stage, p-4E-BP1 expression showed a stronger relationship with OS in patients with limited disease (p = 0.008). In addition, when stratified by treatment status, p-4E-BP1 expression was still significantly associated with worse OS in a subgroup of patients who completed treatment (p = 0.021). Our results indicate that p-4E-BP1 expression could represent oncogenic potential and contribute to the progression and aggressiveness of SCLC, suggesting it could be a candidate prognostic biomarker of SCLC, especially in limited disease.
Tumour cells can use strategies that make them resistant to nutrient deprivation to outcompete their neighbours. A key integrator of the cell's responses to starvation and other stresses is amino-acid-dependent mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1). Activation of mTORC1 on late endosomes and lysosomes is facilitated by amino-acid transporters within the solute-linked carrier 36 (SLC36) and SLC38 families. Here, we analyse the functions of SLC36 family member, SLC36A4, otherwise known as proton-assisted amino-acid transporter 4 (PAT4), in colorectal cancer. We show that independent of other major pathological factors, high PAT4 expression is associated with reduced relapse-free survival after colorectal cancer surgery. Consistent with this, PAT4 promotes HCT116 human colorectal cancer cell proliferation in culture and tumour growth in xenograft models. Inducible knockdown in HCT116 cells reveals that PAT4 regulates a form of mTORC1 with two distinct properties: first, it preferentially targets eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding protein 1 (4E-BP1), and second, it is resistant to rapamycin treatment. Furthermore, in HCT116 cells two non-essential amino acids, glutamine and serine, which are often rapidly metabolised by tumour cells, regulate rapamycin-resistant mTORC1 in a PAT4-dependent manner. Overexpressed PAT4 is also able to promote rapamycin resistance in human embryonic kidney-293 cells. PAT4 is predominantly associated with the Golgi apparatus in a range of cell types, and in situ proximity ligation analysis shows that PAT4 interacts with both mTORC1 and its regulator Rab1A on the Golgi. These findings, together with other studies, suggest that differentially localised intracellular amino-acid transporters contribute to the activation of alternate forms of mTORC1. Furthermore, our data predict that colorectal cancer cells with high PAT4 expression will be more resistant to depletion of serine and glutamine, allowing them to survive and outgrow neighbouring normal and tumorigenic cells, and potentially providing a new route for pharmacological intervention.Oncogene advance online publication, 5 October 2015; doi:10.1038/onc.2015.363.
Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a serine-threonine kinase that acts downstream of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling pathway and regulates a wide range of cellular functions including transcription, translation, proliferation, apoptosis, and autophagy. Whereas genetic alterations that result in mTOR activation are frequently present in human cancers, whether the mTOR gene itself becomes an oncogene through somatic mutation has remained unclear. We have now identified a somatic nonsynonymous mutation of mTOR that results in a leucine-to-valine substitution at amino acid position 2209 in a specimen of large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma. The mTOR(L2209V) mutant manifested marked transforming potential in a focus formation assay with mouse 3T3 fibroblasts, and it induced the phosphorylation of p70 S6 kinase, S6 ribosomal protein, and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding protein 1 in these cells. Examination of additional tumor specimens as well as of public and in-house databases of cancer genome mutations identified another 28 independent nonsynonymous mutations of mTOR in various cancer types, with 12 of these mutations also exhibiting transforming ability. Most of these oncogenic mutations cluster at the interface between the kinase domain and the FAT (FRAP, ATM, TRRAP) domain in the three-dimensional structure of mTOR. Transforming mTOR mutants were also found to promote 3T3 cell survival, and their oncogenic activity was sensitive to rapamycin. Our data thus show that mTOR acquires transforming activity through genetic changes in cancer, and they suggest that such tumors may be candidates for molecularly targeted therapy with mTOR inhibitors. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Targeting protein-protein interacting sites for potential therapeutic applications is a challenge in the development of inhibitors, and this becomes more difficult when these interfaces are relatively planar, as in the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) protein. eIF4E is an oncogene that is overexpressed in numerous forms of cancer, making it a prime target as a therapeutic molecule. We report here the presence of a cryptic pocket at the protein-binding interface of eIF4E, which opens transiently during molecular dynamics simulations of the protein in solvent water and is observed to be stable when solvent water is mixed with benzene molecules. This pocket can also be seen in the ensemble of structures available from the solution-state conformations of eIF4E. The accessibility of the pocket is gated by the side-chain transitions of an evolutionarily conserved tryptophan residue. It is found to be feasible for accommodating clusters of benzene molecules, which signify the plasticity and ligandability of the pocket. We also observe that the newly formed cavity provides a favorable binding environment for interaction of a well-recognized small molecule inhibitor of eIF4E. The occurrence of this transiently accessible cavity highlights the existence of a more pronounced binding groove in a region that has traditionally been considered to be planar. Together, the data suggest that an alternate binding cavity exists on eIF4E and could be exploited for the rational design and development of a new class of lead compounds against the protein.
Nasal natural killer T-cell lymphoma (NKTL) is a highly malignant tumor that is closely associated with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection. Latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) is encoded by EBV and plays an important role in EBV-induced cell transformation. Therefore, we assessed the function of LMP1 as a stimulant of NKTL progression and the underlying mechanism. A human EBV-positive NKTL cell line (SNK-6) was transfected with pcDNA3.1-LMP1, LV-LMP1 shRNA or LV-eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E)-shRNA. Then, 3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay was used to assess the proliferation of SNK-6 cells, and cell migration and invasion were analyzed by transwell chamber assay. Flow cytometry was used to analyze the cell cycle and apoptosis. The results showed LMP1 was highly expressed in SNK-6 cells compared with control groups. Following pretreatment with LMP1 shRNA, the proliferation of SNK-6 cells was inhibited and resulted in a G0/G1 phase arrest. A reduction in invasion and migration was also observed. LMP1 silencing promoted cell apoptosis. Further mechanistic analysis suggested that LMP1 overexpression induced the expression of eIF4E, while eIF4E-shRNA dramatically attenuated the increase in cell proliferation, invasion, migration and the inhibition of apoptosis triggered by LMP-1 upregulation. Moreover, the effect of LMP1 on eIF4E expression was mediated by the NF-κB pathway. Therefore, this finding may provide a potential target against NKTL.
Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) is overexpressed in cervical cancer (CC). However, the molecular mechanisms are unclear. This study aimed to investigate the molecular mechanism of eIF4E gene overexpression in CC.
The human papillomavirus (HPV) type 18 E7 and eIF4E mRNAs were measured following knock down or overexpression of E7 gene by RT-PCR and real-time PCR. Cell counting kit-8 assay was used to determine the cell proliferation. Flow cytometry was used to analyze the cell cycle and apoptosis. Transwell system was employed to determine the cell migration.
Overexpression of E7 gene increased eIF4E mRNA level by 24.3% (P<0.01) in HPV negative C33A cells. Knock down of E7 decreased markedly eIF4E mRNA by 73% (P<0.01) in HPV18 positive HeLa cells. Under the state of high expression of E7, 1) up-regulation of eIF4E drastically promoted the cell proliferation, cell cycle and cell migration, and inhibited the cell apoptosis. 2) down-regulation of eIF4E significantly inhibited the cell proliferation, cell cycle and the ability of cell migration, and also promoted the apoptosis of cervical cancer cells.
HPV E7 induced eIF4E gene over transcription which might be a new marker for CC. The finding broadens the understanding of the CC carcinogenesis.
The eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) recognizes the mRNA cap structure and, together with eIF4G and eIF4A, form the eIF4F complex that regulates translation initiation in eukaryotes. In trypanosomatids, two eIF4E homologues (EIF4E3 and EIF4E4) have been shown to be part of eIF4F-like complexes with presumed roles in translation initiation. Both proteins possess unique N-terminal extensions, which can be targeted for phosphorylation. Here, we provide novel insights on the Leishmania infantum EIF4E4 function and regulation. We show that EIF4E4 is constitutively expressed throughout the parasite development but is preferentially phosphorylated in exponentially grown promastigote and amastigote life stages, hence correlating with high levels of translation. Phosphorylation targets multiple serine-proline or threonine-proline residues within the N-terminal extension of EIF4E4 but does not require binding to the EIF4E4's partner, EIF4G3, or to the cap structure. We also report that EIF4E4 interacts with PABP1 through three conserved boxes at the EIF4E4 N-terminus and that this interaction is a prerequisite for efficient EIF4E4 phosphorylation. EIF4E4 is essential for Leishmania growth and an EIF4E4 null mutant was only obtained in the presence of an ectopically provided wild type gene. Complementation for the loss of EIF4E4 with several EIF4E4 mutant proteins affecting either phosphorylation or binding to mRNA or to EIF4E4 protein partners revealed that, in contrast to other eukaryotes, only the EIF4E4-PABP1 interaction but neither the binding to EIF4G3 nor phosphorylation is essential for translation. These studies also demonstrated that the lack of both EIF4E4 phosphorylation and EIF4G3 binding leads to a non-functional protein. Altogether, these findings further highlight the unique features of the translation initiation process in trypanosomatid protozoa.
The original purification of the heterotrimeric eIF4F was published over 30 years ago (Grifo, J. A., Tahara, S. M., Morgan, M. A., Shatkin, A. J., and Merrick, W. C. (1983) J. Biol. Chem. 258, 5804-5810). Since that time, numerous studies have been performed with the three proteins specifically required for the translation initiation of natural mRNAs, eIF4A, eIF4B, and eIF4F. These have involved enzymatic and structural studies of the proteins and a number of site-directed mutagenesis studies. The regulation of translation exhibited through the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway is predominately seen as the phosphorylation of 4E-BP, an inhibitor of protein synthesis that functions by binding to the cap binding subunit of eIF4F (eIF4E). A hypothesis that requires the disassembly of eIF4F during translation initiation to yield free subunits (eIF4A, eIF4E, and eIF4G) is presented.
The regulator of G protein signaling 10 (RGS10) protein is a GTPase activating protein that accelerates the hydrolysis of GTP and therefore canonically inactivates G proteins, ultimately terminating signaling. Rheb is a small GTPase protein that shuttles between its GDP- and GTP-bound forms to activate mTOR. Since RGS10 suppression augments ovarian cancer cell viability, we sought to elucidate the molecular mechanism. Following RGS10 suppression in serum-free conditions, phosphorylation of mTOR, the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1 (4E-BP1), p70S6K and S6 Ribosomal Protein appear. Furthermore, suppressing RGS10 increases activated Rheb, suggesting RGS10 antagonizes mTOR signaling via the small G-protein. The effects of RGS10 suppression are enhanced after stimulating cells with the growth factor, lysophosphatidic acid, and reduced with mTOR inhibitors, temsirolimus and INK-128. Suppression of RGS10 leads to an increase in cell proliferation, even in the presence of etoposide. In summary, the RGS10 suppression increases Rheb-GTP and mTOR signaling in ovarian cancer cells. Our results suggest that RGS10 could serve in a novel, and previously unknown, role by accelerating the hydrolysis of GTP from Rheb in ovarian cancer cells.
The eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E), which is the main composition factor of eIF4F translation initiation complex, influences the growth of tumor through modulating cap-dependent protein translation. Previous studies reported that ribavirin could suppress eIF4E-controlled translation and reduce the synthesis of onco-proteins. Here, we investigated the anti-leukemic effects of ribavirin alone or in combination with tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib in Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) leukemia cell lines SUP-B15 (Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line, Ph+ ALL) and K562 (chronic myelogenous leukemia cell line, CML). Our results showed that ribavirin had anti-proliferation effect; it down-regulated the phosphorylation levels of Akt, mTOR, 4EBP1, and eIF4E proteins in the mTOR/eIF4E signaling pathway, and MEK, ERK, Mnk1 and eIF4E proteins in ERK/Mnk1/eIF4E signaling pathway; reduced the expression of Mcl-1 (a translation substrates of eIF4F translation initiation complex) at protein synthesis level not mRNA transcriptional level; and induced cell apoptosis in both SUP-B15 and K562. 7-Methyl-guanosine cap affinity assay further demonstrated that ribavirin remarkably increased the eIF4E binding to 4EBP1 and decreased the combination of eIF4E with eIF4G, consequently resulting in a major inhibition of eIF4F complex assembly. The combination of ribavirin with imatinib enhanced antileukemic effects mentioned above, indicating that two drugs have synergistic anti-leukemic effect. Consistent with the cell lines, similar results were observed in Ph+ acute lymphoblastic primary leukemic blasts; however, the anti-proliferative role of ribavirin in other types of acute primary leukemic blasts was not obvious, which indicated that the anti-leukemic effect of ribavirin was different in cell lineages.
Cyclosporine A (CsA) is widely used as an immunosuppressor in transplantation. Previous studies reported that CsA induces autophagy and that chronic treatment with CsA results in accumulation of autophagosomes and reduced autophagic clearance. Autophagy is a prosurvival process that promotes recovery from acute kidney injury by degrading misfolded proteins produced in the kidney. In the present study, we used TMBIM6-expressing HK-2, human kidney tubular cells (TMBIM6 cells) and Tmbim6 knockout (tmbim6(-/-)) mice. When exposed to CsA, the TMBIM6 cells maintained autophagy activity by preventing autophagosome accumulation. With regard to signaling, PRKKA/AMPK phosphorylation and mechanistic target of rapamycin (serine/threonine kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) expression and its downstream target TFEB (transcription factor EB), a lysosome biogenesis factor, were regulated in the TMBIM6 cells. Lysosomal activity was highly increased or stably maintained in the presence of TMBIM6. In addition, treatment of tmbim6(-/-) mice with CsA resulted in increased autophagosome formation and decreased lysosome formation and activity. We also found that tmbim6(-/-) mice were susceptible to CsA-induced kidney injury. Taken together, these results indicate that TMBIM6 protects against CsA-induced nephrotoxicity both in vitro and in vivo by inducing autophagy and activating lysosomes.
The molecular mechanisms underlying renal growth and renal growth-induced nephron damage remain poorly understood. Here, we report that in murine models, deletion of the tuberous sclerosis complex protein 1 (Tsc1) in renal proximal tubules induced strikingly enlarged kidneys, with minimal cystogenesis and occasional microscopic tumorigenesis. Signaling studies revealed hyperphosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding protein 1 (4E-BP1) and increased phosphorylation of ribosomal protein S6 (rpS6) in activated renal tubules. Notably, knockin of a nonphosphorylatable rpS6 in these Tsc1-mutant mice exacerbated cystogenesis and caused drastic nephron damage and renal fibrosis, leading to kidney failure and a premature death rate of 67% by 9 weeks of age. In contrast, Tsc1 single-mutant mice were all alive and had far fewer renal cysts at this age. Mechanistic studies revealed persistent activation of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) signaling causing hyperphosphorylation and consequent accumulation of 4E-BP1, along with greater cell proliferation, in the renal tubules of Tsc1 and rpS6 double-mutant mice. Furthermore, pharmacologic treatment of Tsc1 single-mutant mice with rapamycin reduced hyperphosphorylation and accumulation of 4E-BP1 but also inhibited phosphorylation of rpS6. Rapamycin also exacerbated cystic and fibrotic lesions and impaired kidney function in these mice, consequently leading to a premature death rate of 40% within 2 weeks of treatment, despite destroying tumors and decreasing kidney size. These findings indicate that Tsc1 prevents aberrant renal growth and tumorigenesis by inhibiting mTORC1 signaling, whereas phosphorylated rpS6 suppresses cystogenesis and fibrosis in Tsc1-deleted kidneys.
In multicellular organisms, growth and proliferation is adjusted to nutritional conditions by a complex signaling network. The Insulin receptor/target of rapamycin (InR/TOR) signaling cascade plays a pivotal role in nutrient dependent growth regulation in Drosophila and mammals alike. Here we identify Cyclin G (CycG) as a regulator of growth and metabolism in Drosophila. CycG mutants have a reduced body size and weight and show signs of starvation accompanied by a disturbed fat metabolism. InR/TOR signaling activity is impaired in cycG mutants, combined with a reduced phosphorylation status of the kinase Akt1 and the downstream factors S6-kinase and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein (4E-BP). Moreover, the expression and accumulation of Drosophila insulin like peptides (dILPs) is disturbed in cycG mutant brains. Using a reporter assay, we show that the activity of one of the first effectors of InR signaling, Phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K92E), is unaffected in cycG mutants. However, the metabolic defects and weight loss in cycG mutants were rescued by overexpression of Akt1 specifically in the fat body and by mutants in widerborst (wdb), the B'-subunit of the phosphatase PP2A, known to downregulate Akt1 by dephosphorylation. Together, our data suggest that CycG acts at the level of Akt1 to regulate growth and metabolism via PP2A in Drosophila.
Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding protein 1 (4E-BP1) is an important factor regulating protein translation. It also impacts proliferation, apoptosis, invasion, and the cell cycle of cancer cells. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between 4E-BP1 and human immune status, recognizing immunomodulatory molecules involved in the overexpression of 4E-BP1.
A lentivirus expression system was used to overexpress 4E-BP1 in the H1299 cell line. Western blot was performed to investigate the expression level of 4E-BP1 and P-4E-BP1, and quantitative polymerase chain reaction was used to quantify gene expression of immunomodulatory molecules.
The expression level of 4E-BP1 increased significantly after lentivirus infection (P < 0.05). Overexpression of 4E-BP1 upregulated the expression of interleukin (IL)-1β (P < 0.05), IL-5 (P < 0.001), IL-23 (P < 0.001), macrophage inflammatory protein-1β (P < 0.001), Eota-3 (P < 0.05), and MCP-4 (P < 0.05). Most of the increases were observed at the seventh day. The variation trend of IL-10, cell division cycle protein 2, proliferating cell nuclear antigen, and phosphatase and tensin homolog was not clear.
Overexpression of 4E-BP1 altered immune status by upregulating the expression of a series of immunomodulatory molecules, indicating that 4E-BP1 could serve as a potential therapeutic target against cancer.
Mutations of the insulin/IGF signaling (IIS) pathway extend Drosophila lifespan. Based on genetic epistasis analyses, this longevity assurance is attributed to downstream effects of the FOXO transcription factor. However, as reported FOXO accounts for only a portion of the observed longevity benefit, suggesting there are additional outputs of IIS to mediate aging. One candidate is target of rapamycin complex 1 (TORC1). Reduced TORC1 activity is reported to slow aging, whereas reduced IIS is reported to repress TORC1 activity. The eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein (4E-BP) is repressed by TORC1, and activated 4E-BP is reported to increase Drosophila lifespan. Here we use genetic epistasis analyses to test whether longevity assurance mutants of chico, the Drosophila insulin receptor substrate homolog, require Drosophila d4eBP to slow aging. In chico heterozygotes, which are robustly long-lived, d4eBP is required but not sufficient to slow aging. Remarkably, d4eBP is not required or sufficient for chico homozygotes to extend longevity. Likewise, chico heterozygote females partially require d4eBP to preserve age-dependent locomotion, and both chico genotypes require d4eBP to improve stress-resistance. Reproduction and most measures of growth affected by either chico genotype are always independent of d4eBP. In females, chico heterozygotes paradoxically produce more rather than less phosphorylated 4E-BP (p4E-BP). Altered IRS function within the IIS pathway of Drosophila appears to have partial, conditional capacity to regulate aging through an unconventional interaction with 4E-BP.
Exacerbated mRNA translation during brain development has been linked to autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). Deletion of the eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E)-binding protein 2 gene (Eif4ebp2), encoding the suppressor of mRNA translation initiation 4E-BP2, leads to an imbalance in excitatory-to-inhibitory neurotransmission and ASD-like behaviors. Inhibition of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) mGluR1 and mGluR5 reverses the autistic phenotypes in several ASD mouse models. Importantly, these receptors control synaptic physiology via activation of mRNA translation. We investigated the potential reversal of autistic-like phenotypes in Eif4ebp2(-/-) mice by using antagonists of mGluR1 (JNJ16259685) or mGluR5 (fenobam). Augmented hippocampal mGluR-induced long-term depression (LTD; or chemically induced mGluR-LTD) in Eif4ebp2(-/-) mice was rescued by mGluR1 or mGluR5 antagonists. While rescue by mGluR5 inhibition occurs through the blockade of a protein synthesis-dependent component of LTD, normalization by mGluR1 antagonists requires the activation of protein synthesis. Synaptically induced LTD was deficient in Eif4ebp2(-/-) mice, and this deficit was not rescued by group I mGluR antagonists. Furthermore, a single dose of mGluR1 (0.3 mg/kg) or mGluR5 (3 mg/kg) antagonists in vivo reversed the deficits in social interaction and repetitive behaviors (marble burying) in Eif4ebp2(-/-) mice. Our results demonstrate that Eif4ebp2(-/-) mice serve as a relevant model to test potential therapies for ASD symptoms. In addition, we provide substantive evidence that the inhibition of mGluR1/mGluR5 is an effective treatment for physiological and behavioral alterations caused by exacerbated mRNA translation initiation.
Exacerbated mRNA translation during brain development is associated with several autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). We recently demonstrated that the deletion of a negative regulator of mRNA translation initiation, the eukaryotic initiation factor 4E-binding protein 2, leads to ASD-like behaviors and increased excitatory synaptic activity. Here we demonstrated that autistic behavioral and electrophysiological phenotypes can be treated in adult mice with antagonists of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), which have been previously used in other ASD models (i.e., fragile X syndrome). These findings support the use of group I mGluR antagonists as a potential therapy that extends to autism models involving exacerbated mRNA translation initiation.
The kinase mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) promotes translation as well as cell survival and proliferation under nutrient-rich conditions. Whereas mTOR activates translation through ribosomal protein S6 kinase (S6K) and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding protein (4E-BP), how it facilitates cell proliferation has remained unclear. We have now identified p19(Arf), an inhibitor of cell cycle progression, as a novel substrate of S6K that is targeted to promote cell proliferation. Serum stimulation induced activation of the mTOR-S6K axis and consequent phosphorylation of p19(Arf) at Ser(75). Phosphorylated p19(Arf) was then recognized by the F-box protein β-TrCP2 and degraded by the proteasome. Ablation of β-TrCP2 thus led to the arrest of cell proliferation as a result of the stabilization and accumulation of p19(Arf). The β-TrCP2 paralog β-TrCP1 had no effect on p19(Arf) stability, suggesting that phosphorylated p19(Arf) is a specific substrate of β-TrCP2. Mice deficient in β-TrCP2 manifested accumulation of p19(Arf) in the yolk sac and died in utero. Our results suggest that the mTOR pathway promotes cell proliferation via β-TrCP2-dependent p19(Arf) degradation under nutrient-rich conditions.
Elevated levels of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) enhance translation of many malignancy-related proteins, such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), c-Myc and osteopontin. In non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), levels of eIF4E are significantly increased compared with normal lung tissue. Here, we used an antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) to inhibit the expression of eIF4E in NSCLC cell lines. eIF4E levels were significantly reduced in a dose-dependent manner in NSCLC cells treated with eIF4E-specific ASO (4EASO) compared with control ASO. Treatment of NSCLC cells with the 4EASO resulted in decreased cap-dependent complex formation, decreased cell proliferation and increased sensitivity to gemcitabine. At the molecular level, repression of eIF4E with ASO resulted in decreased expression of the oncogenic proteins VEGF, c-Myc and osteopontin, whereas expression of β-actin was unaffected. Based on these findings, we conclude that eIF4E-silencing therapy alone or in conjunction with chemotherapy represents a promising approach deserving of further investigation in future NSCLC clinical trials.
Abnormal axonal connectivity and hyperactive mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) are shared features of several neurological disorders. Hyperactive mTORC1 alters axon length and polarity of hippocampal neurons in vitro, but the impact of hyperactive mTORC1 on axon growth in vivo and the mechanisms underlying those effects remain unclear. Using in utero electroporation during corticogenesis, we show that increasing mTORC1 activity accelerates axon growth without multiple axon formation. This was prevented by counteracting mTORC1 signaling through p70S6Ks (S6K1/2) or eukaryotic initiation factor 4E-binding protein (4E-BP1/2), which both regulate translation. In addition to regulating translational targets, S6K1 indirectly signals through GSK3β, a regulator of axogenesis. Although blocking GSK3β activity did not alter axon growth under physiological conditions in vivo, blocking it using a dominant-negative mutant or lithium chloride prevented mTORC1-induced accelerated axon growth. These data reveal the contribution of translational and non-translational downstream effectors such as GSK3β to abnormal axon growth in neurodevelopmental mTORopathies and open new therapeutic options for restoring long-range connectivity.
The present study conducted a 9-week feeding trial to investigate the effects of threonine (Thr) on the digestion capacity and hepatopancreas gene expression of juvenile blunt snout bream (Megalobrama amblycephala). For this purpose, three tanks (300 litres/tank) were randomly arranged and assigned to each experimental diet. Juvenile fish were fed with diets containing graded Thr levels (0·58, 1·08, 1·58, 2·08 or 2·58 % of the diet) to apparent satiation four times daily. At the end of the feeding trial, the results indicated that hepatopancreas weight, hepatosomatic index, hepatopancreatic protein content, intestinal weight, intestosomatic index and intestinal protein content increased with increasing dietary Thr levels up to 1·58 % and thereafter decreased (P< 0·05). The activities of chymotrypsin, trypsin, amylase and lipase elevated as dietary Thr levels increased up to 1·58 % (P< 0·05), while these activities decreased in most cases after 1·58 % dietary Thr except for chymotrypsin and trypsin in the hepatopancreas (plateau 1·58-2·08 % Thr). The relative gene expression levels of chymotrypsin, trypsin, amylase, lipase, target of rapamycin and insulin-like growth factor-I were up-regulated, and the highest values were observed with 1·58 % dietary Thr or 1·58 and 2·08 % dietary Thr, whereas the relative gene expression levels of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding protein 2 gradually decreased (P< 0·10) as dietary Thr levels increased up to 1·58 % and thereafter significantly increased (P< 0·05), which could explain that about 1·58 % dietary Thr could improve the growth and development of digestive organs and activities of digestive enzymes of juvenile blunt snout bream.
The eukaryotic translation initiation factor (eIF-4E) has recently been cloned from human, mouse, and yeast. This polypeptide is the rate-limiting component of the eukaryotic translation apparatus and is involved in the mRNA-ribosome binding step of eukaryotic protein synthesis. We have designed oligonucleotide primers to the 3' untranslated region of the gene encoding eIF-4E and specifically amplified the human gene in human/rodent somatic cell hybrids using the polymerase chain reaction. By this method, one of the human eIF-4E genes (EIF4EL1, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-like 1) has been mapped to human chromosome 4qter-4p15. In addition, we have localized a second eIF-4E gene (EIF4EL2, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-like 2) to human chromosome 20 by Southern blot analysis of mapping panels established from human/rodent somatic cell hybrids.
This study demonstrated the feasibility and benefit of an antibody-based experimental approach to identify microRNA functional targets from hundreds of predicted genes using miR-206 as an example. Using a receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) antibody array, we identified 7 phosphorylated RTKs that were significantly differentially regulated after miR-206-mimic transfection. We then focused on MET, the most varied RTK, and bioinformatically constructed a MET-centred network using computationally predicted miR-206 targets. Within this network, we analyzed two validated targets, PAX3 and SNX2, and one candidate target, EIF4E, may account for the inhibitory effect of miR-206 on MET phosphorylation. Luciferase and Western-blot assays indicated that EIF4E was a direct target of miR-206. This concept may also be applicable for other microRNAs and other antibody array platforms.
eIF4E, the major cap-binding protein, has long been considered limiting for translating the mammalian genome. However, the eIF4E dose requirement at an organismal level remains unexplored. By generating an Eif4e haploinsufficient mouse, we found that a 50% reduction in eIF4E expression, while compatible with normal development and global protein synthesis, significantly impeded cellular transformation. Genome-wide translational profiling uncovered a translational program induced by oncogenic transformation and revealed a critical role for the dose of eIF4E, specifically in translating a network of mRNAs enriched for a unique 5' UTR signature. In particular, we demonstrate that the dose of eIF4E is essential for translating mRNAs that regulate reactive oxygen species, fueling transformation and cancer cell survival in vivo. Our findings indicate eIF4E is maintained at levels in excess for normal development that are hijacked by cancer cells to drive a translational program supporting tumorigenesis.
Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) is overexpressed early in breast cancers in association with disease progression and reduced survival. Much remains to be understood regarding the role of eIF4E in human cancer. We determined, using immortalized human breast epithelial cells, that elevated expression of eIF4E translationally activates the transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) pathway, promoting cell invasion, a loss of cell polarity, increased cell survival, and other hallmarks of early neoplasia. Overexpression of eIF4E is shown to facilitate the selective translation of integrin β1 mRNA, which drives the translationally controlled assembly of a TGF-β receptor signaling complex containing α3β1 integrins, β-catenin, TGF-β receptor I, E-cadherin, and phosphorylated Smad2/3. This receptor complex acutely sensitizes nonmalignant breast epithelial cells to activation by typically substimulatory levels of activated TGF-β. TGF-β can promote cellular differentiation or invasion and transformation. As a translational coactivator of TGF-β, eIF4E confers selective mRNA translation, reprogramming nonmalignant cells to an invasive phenotype by reducing the set point for stimulation by activated TGF-β. Overexpression of eIF4E may be a proinvasive facilitator of TGF-β activity.
The mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) is a critical regulator of protein synthesis. The best studied targets of mTORC1 in translation are the eukaryotic initiation factor-binding protein 1 (4E-BP1) and ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1 (S6K1). In this study, we identify the La-related protein 1 (LARP1) as a key novel target of mTORC1 with a fundamental role in terminal oligopyrimidine (TOP) mRNA translation. Recent genome-wide studies indicate that TOP and TOP-like mRNAs compose a large portion of the mTORC1 translatome, but the mechanism by which mTORC1 controls TOP mRNA translation is incompletely understood. Here, we report that LARP1 functions as a key repressor of TOP mRNA translation downstream of mTORC1. Our data show the following: (i) LARP1 associates with mTORC1 via RAPTOR; (ii) LARP1 interacts with TOP mRNAs in an mTORC1-dependent manner; (iii) LARP1 binds the 5'TOP motif to repress TOP mRNA translation; and (iv) LARP1 competes with the eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF) 4G for TOP mRNA binding. Importantly, from a drug resistance standpoint, our data also show that reducing LARP1 protein levels by RNA interference attenuates the inhibitory effect of rapamycin, Torin1, and amino acid deprivation on TOP mRNA translation. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that LARP1 functions as an important repressor of TOP mRNA translation downstream of mTORC1.
The circadian (∼24 h) clock is continuously entrained (reset) by ambient light so that endogenous rhythms are synchronized with daily changes in the environment. Light-induced gene expression is thought to be the molecular mechanism underlying clock entrainment. mRNA translation is a key step of gene expression, but the manner in which clock entrainment is controlled at the level of mRNA translation is not well understood. We found that a light- and circadian clock-regulated MAPK/MNK pathway led to phosphorylation of the cap-binding protein eIF4E in the mouse suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus, the locus of the master circadian clock in mammals. Phosphorylation of eIF4E specifically promoted translation of Period 1 (Per1) and Period 2 (Per2) mRNAs and increased the abundance of basal and inducible PER proteins, which facilitated circadian clock resetting and precise timekeeping. Together, these results highlight a critical role for light-regulated translational control in the physiology of the circadian clock.
Dinoflagellates are eukaryotes with unusual cell biology and appear to rely on translational rather than transcriptional control of gene expression. The eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) plays an important role in regulating gene expression because eIF4E binding to the mRNA cap is a control point for translation. eIF4E is part of an extended, eukaryote-specific family with different members having specific functions, based on studies of model organisms. Dinoflagellate eIF4E diversity could provide a mechanism for dinoflagellates to regulate gene expression in a post-transcriptional manner. Accordingly, eIF4E family members from eleven core dinoflagellate transcriptomes were surveyed to determine the diversity and phylogeny of the eIF4E family in dinoflagellates and related lineages including apicomplexans, ciliates and heterokonts.
The survey uncovered eight to fifteen (on average eleven) different eIF4E family members in each core dinoflagellate species. The eIF4E family members from heterokonts and dinoflagellates segregated into three clades, suggesting at least three eIF4E cognates were present in their common ancestor. However, these three clades are distinct from the three previously described eIF4E classes, reflecting diverse approaches to a central eukaryotic function. Heterokonts contain four clades, ciliates two and apicomplexans only a single recognizable eIF4E clade. In the core dinoflagellates, the three clades were further divided into nine sub-clades based on the phylogenetic analysis and species representation. Six of the sub-clades included at least one member from all eleven core dinoflagellate species, suggesting duplication in their shared ancestor. Conservation within sub-clades varied, suggesting different selection pressures.
Phylogenetic analysis of eIF4E in core dinoflagellates revealed complex layering of duplication and conservation when compared to other eukaryotes. Our results suggest that the diverse eIF4E family in core dinoflagellates may provide a toolkit to enable selective translation as a strategy for controlling gene expression in these enigmatic eukaryotes.
The signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (Stat1) functions as a tumor suppressor via immune regulatory and cell-autonomous pathways. Herein, we report a previously unidentified cell-autonomous Stat1 function, which is its ability to exhibit both antiproliferative and prosurvival properties by facilitating translation of mRNAs encoding for the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27(Kip1) and antiapoptotic proteins X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis and B-cell lymphoma xl. Translation of the select mRNAs requires the transcriptional function of Stat1, resulting in the up-regulation of the p110γ subunit of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) class IB and increased expression of the translational repressor translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E)-binding protein 1 (4EBP1). Increased PI3Kγ signaling promotes the degradation of the eIF4A inhibitor programmed cell death protein 4, which favors the cap-independent translation of the select mRNAs under conditions of general inhibition of protein synthesis by up-regulated eIF4E-binding protein 1. As such, Stat1 inhibits cell proliferation but also renders cells increasingly resistant to antiproliferative effects of pharmacological inhibitors of PI3K and/or mammalian target of rapamycin. Stat1 also protects Ras-transformed cells from the genotoxic effects of doxorubicin in culture and immune-deficient mice. Our findings demonstrate an important role of mRNA translation in the cell-autonomous Stat1 functions, with implications in tumor growth and treatment with chemotherapeutic drugs.
4E binding proteins (4E-BPs) play an important role in the regulation of translation by binding to eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) and inhibiting assembly of the eIF4F complex. While phosphorylation of 4E-BPs is known to disrupt their binding to eIF4E, the mechanism by which this occurs has been unclear. In a recent study, Forman-Kay and coworkers demonstrate that this mechanism is primarily structure-based: phosphorylation of 4E-BPs results in a disorder-to-order transition, bringing them from their binding-competent disordered state to a folded state incompatible with eIF4E binding.
Retroviruses cause immunodeficiency and cancer but also are used as vectors for the expression of heterologous genes. Nevertheless, optimal translation of introduced genes often is not achieved. Here we show that transfection into mammalian cells of lentiviral or gammaretroviral vectors, including those with specific shRNAs, increased expression of a cotransfected gene relative to standard plasmid vectors. Levels of most endogenous cellular proteins were unchanged. Transfer of lentiviral vector sequences into a standard plasmid conferred the ability to give increased expression of cotransfected genes (superinduction). Superinduction by the retroviral vector was not dependent on the cell type or species, the type of reporter gene, or the method of transfection. No differences were detected in the IFN, unfolded protein, or stress responses in the presence of retroviral vectors. RT-PCRs revealed that RNA levels of cotransfected genes were unchanged during superinduction, yet Western blotting, pulse labeling, and the use of bicistronic vectors showed increased cap-dependent translation of cointroduced genes. Expression of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) kinase target 4E-BP1, but not the mTOR inhibitor Torin 1, preferentially inhibited superinduction relative to basal protein expression. Furthermore, transcription of lentiviral vector sequences from a doxycycline-inducible promoter eliminated superinduction, consistent with a DNA-triggered event. Thus, retroviral DNA increased translation of cointroduced genes in trans by an mTOR-independent signaling mechanism. Our experiments have broad applications for the design of retroviral vectors for transfections, DNA vaccines, and gene therapy.
Translation is a complex process involving diverse cellular proteins, including the translation initiation factor eIF4E, which has been shown to be a protein that is a point for translational regulation. Viruses require components from the host cell to complete their replication cycles. Various studies show how eIF4E and its regulatory cellular proteins are manipulated during viral infections. Interestingly, viral action mechanisms in eIF4E are diverse and have an impact not only on viral protein synthesis, but also on other aspects that are important for the replication cycle, such as the proliferation of infected cells and stimulation of viral reactivation. This review shows how some viruses use eIF4E and its regulatory proteins for their own benefit in order to spread themselves.
Activity-dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP) is a most frequent autism spectrum disorder (ASD)-associated gene and the only protein significantly decreasing in the serum of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Is ADNP associated with ASD being more prevalent in boys and AD more prevalent in women? Our results revealed sex-related learning/memory differences in mice, reflecting hippocampal expression changes in ADNP and ADNP-controlled AD/ASD risk genes. Hippocampal ADNP transcript content was doubled in male vs female mice, with females showing equal expression to ADNP haploinsufficient (ADNP(+/)(-)) males and no significant genotype-associated reduction. Increased male ADNP expression was replicated in human postmortem hippocampal samples. The hippocampal transcript for apolipoprotein E (the major risk gene for AD) was doubled in female mice compared with males, and further doubled in the ADNP(+/-) females, contrasting a decrease in ADNP(+/-) males. Previously, overexpression of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) led to ASD-like phenotype in mice. Here, we identified binding sites on ADNP for eIF4E and co-immunoprecipitation. Furthermore, hippocampal eIF4E expression was specifically increased in young ADNP(+/-) male mice. Behaviorally, ADNP(+/-) male mice exhibited deficiencies in object recognition and social memory compared with ADNP(+/+) mice, while ADNP(+/-) females were partially spared. Contrasting males, which preferred novel over familiar mice, ADNP(+/+) females showed no preference to novel mice and ADNP(+/-) females did not prefer mice over object. ADNP expression, positioned as a master regulator of key ASD and AD risk genes, introduces a novel concept of hippocampal gene-regulated sexual dimorphism and an ADNP(+/-) animal model for translational psychiatry.
The synthesis and in vitro and in vivo antibreast and antiprostate cancers activities of novel C-4 heteroaryl 13-cis-retinamides that modulate Mnk-eIF4E and AR signaling are discussed. Modifications of the C-4 heteroaryl substituents reveal that the 1H-imidazole is essential for high anticancer activity. The most potent compounds against a variety of human breast and prostate cancer (BC/PC) cell lines were compounds 16 (VNHM-1-66), 20 (VNHM-1-81), and 22 (VNHM-1-73). In these cell lines, the compounds induce Mnk1/2 degradation to substantially suppress eIF4E phosphorylation. In PC cells, the compounds induce degradation of both full-length androgen receptor (fAR) and splice variant AR (AR-V7) to inhibit AR transcriptional activity. More importantly, VNHM-1-81 has strong in vivo antibreast and antiprostate cancer activities, while VNHM-1-73 exhibited strong in vivo antibreast cancer activity, with no apparent host toxicity. Clearly, these lead compounds are strong candidates for development for the treatments of human breast and prostate cancers.
DNA damage response signaling is crucial for genome maintenance in all organisms and is corrupted in cancer. In an RNA interference (RNAi) screen for (de)ubiquitinases and sumoylases modulating the apoptotic response of embryonic stem (ES) cells to DNA damage, we identified the E3 ubiquitin ligase/ISGylase, ariadne homologue 1 (ARIH1). Silencing ARIH1 sensitized ES and cancer cells to genotoxic compounds and ionizing radiation, irrespective of their p53 or caspase-3 status. Expression of wild-type but not ubiquitinase-defective ARIH1 constructs prevented sensitization caused by ARIH1 knockdown. ARIH1 protein abundance increased after DNA damage through attenuation of proteasomal degradation that required ATM signaling. Accumulated ARIH1 associated with 4EHP, and in turn, this competitive inhibitor of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) underwent increased nondegradative ubiquitination upon DNA damage. Genotoxic stress led to an enrichment of ARIH1 in perinuclear, ribosome-containing regions and triggered 4EHP association with the mRNA 5' cap as well as mRNA translation arrest in an ARIH1-dependent manner. Finally, restoration of DNA damage-induced translation arrest in ARIH1-depleted cells by means of an eIF2 inhibitor was sufficient to reinstate resistance to genotoxic stress. These findings identify ARIH1 as a potent mediator of DNA damage-induced translation arrest that protects stem and cancer cells against genotoxic stress.
In eukaryotic cells, the rate-limiting component for cap-dependent mRNA translation is the translation initiation factor eIF4E. eIF4E is overexpressed in a variety of human malignancies, but whether it has a role in melanoma remains obscure. We hypothesized that eIF4E promotes melanoma cell proliferation and facilitates the development of acquired resistance to the BRAF inhibitor vemurafenib. We show that eIF4E is overexpressed in a panel of melanoma cell lines, compared with immortalized melanocytes. Knockdown of eIF4E significantly repressed the proliferation of a subset of melanoma cell lines. Moreover, in BRAF(V600E) melanoma cell lines, vemurafenib inhibits 4E-BP1 phosphorylation, thus promoting its binding to eIF4E. Cap-binding and polysome profiling analysis confirmed that vemurafenib stabilizes the eIF4E-4E-BP1 association and blocks mRNA translation, respectively. Conversely, in cells with acquired resistance to vemurafenib, there is an increased dependence on eIF4E for survival; 4E-BP1 is highly phosphorylated and thus eIF4E-4E-BP1 associations are impeded. Moreover, increasing eIF4E activity by silencing 4E-BP1/2 renders vemurafenib-responsive cells more resistant to BRAF inhibition. In conclusion, these data suggest that therapeutically targeting eIF4E may be a viable means of inhibiting melanoma cell proliferation and overcoming vemurafenib resistance.
Although the MAP kinase-interacting kinases (MNKs) have been known for >15 years, their roles in the regulation of protein synthesis have remained obscure. Here, we explore the involvement of the MNKs in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-stimulated protein synthesis in cortical neurons from mice. Using a combination of pharmacological and genetic approaches, we show that BDNF-induced upregulation of protein synthesis requires MEK/ERK signaling and the downstream kinase, MNK1, which phosphorylates eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF) 4E. Translation initiation is mediated by the interaction of eIF4E with the m(7)GTP cap of mRNA and with eIF4G. The latter interaction is inhibited by the interactions of eIF4E with partner proteins, such as CYFIP1, which acts as a translational repressor. We find that BDNF induces the release of CYFIP1 from eIF4E, and that this depends on MNK1. Finally, using a novel combination of BONCAT and SILAC, we identify a subset of proteins whose synthesis is upregulated by BDNF signaling via MNK1 in neurons. Interestingly, this subset of MNK1-sensitive proteins is enriched for functions involved in neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity. Additionally, we find significant overlap between our subset of proteins whose synthesis is regulated by MNK1 and those encoded by known FMRP-binding mRNAs. Together, our data implicate MNK1 as a key component of BDNF-mediated translational regulation in neurons.
The translation initiation factor eIF4E is an oncogene that is commonly overexpressed in primary breast cancers and metastases. In this article, we report that a pharmacologic inhibitor of eIF4E function, ribavirin, safely and potently suppresses breast tumor formation. Ribavirin administration blocked the growth of primary breast tumors in several murine models and reduced the development of lung metastases in an invasive model. Mechanistically, eIF4E silencing or blockade reduced the invasiveness and metastatic capability of breast cancer cells in a manner associated with decreased activity of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-3 and MMP-9. Furthermore, eIF4E silencing or ribavirin treatment suppressed features of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, a process crucial for metastasis. Our findings offer a preclinical rationale to explore broadening the clinical evaluation of ribavirin, currently being tested in patients with eIF4E-overexpressing leukemia, as a strategy to treat solid tumors such as metastatic breast cancer.
Cap-dependent translation is a potential cancer-related target (oncotarget) due to its critical role in cancer initiation and progression. 4EGI-1, an inhibitor of eIF4E/eIF4G interaction, was discovered by screening chemical libraries of small molecules. 4EGI-1 inhibits cap-dependent translation initiation by impairing the assembly of the eIF4E/eIF4G complex, and therefore is a potential anti-cancer agent. Here, we report that 4EGI-1 also inhibits mTORC1 signaling independent of its inhibitory role on cap-dependent translation initiation. The inhibition of mTORC1 signaling by 4EGI-1 activates Akt due to both abrogation of the negative feedback loops from mTORC1 to PI3K and activation of mTORC2. We further validated that mTORC2 activity is required for 4EGI-1-mediated Akt activation. The activated Akt counteracted the anticancer effects of 4EGI-1. In support of this model, inhibition of Akt potentiates the antitumor activity of 4EGI-1 both in vitro and in a xenograft mouse model in vivo. Our results suggest that a combination of 4EGI-1and Akt inhibitor is a rational approach for the treatment of cancer.
The eIF4E-binding proteins (4E-BPs) are a diverse class of translation regulators that share a canonical eIF4E-binding motif (4E-BM) with eIF4G. Consequently, they compete with eIF4G for binding to eIF4E, thereby inhibiting translation initiation. Mextli (Mxt) is an unusual 4E-BP that promotes translation by also interacting with eIF3. Here we present the crystal structures of the eIF4E-binding regions of the Drosophila melanogaster (Dm) and Caenorhabditis elegans (Ce) Mxt proteins in complex with eIF4E in the cap-bound and cap-free states. The structures reveal unexpected evolutionary plasticity in the eIF4E-binding mode, with a classical bipartite interface for Ce Mxt and a novel tripartite interface for Dm Mxt. Both interfaces comprise a canonical helix and a noncanonical helix that engage the dorsal and lateral surfaces of eIF4E, respectively. Remarkably, Dm Mxt contains a C-terminal auxiliary helix that lies anti-parallel to the canonical helix on the eIF4E dorsal surface. In contrast to the eIF4G and Ce Mxt complexes, the Dm eIF4E-Mxt complexes are resistant to competition by bipartite 4E-BPs, suggesting that Dm Mxt can bind eIF4E when eIF4G binding is inhibited. Our results uncovered unexpected diversity in the binding modes of 4E-BPs, resulting in eIF4E complexes that display differential sensitivity to 4E-BP regulation.
Translation initiation factors (eIFs) are over-activated in many human cancers and may contribute to their progression. The small molecule 4EGI-1, a potent inhibitor of translation initiation through disrupting eIF4E/eIF4G interaction, has been shown to exert anti-cancer effects in human cancer cells. The goal of the present study was to evaluate the anti-cancer effects of 4EGI-1 in human glioma U251 cells. We found that 4EGI-1 impaired the assembly of the eIF4F complex, and inhibited proliferation of U251 cells via inducing apoptosis. 4EGI-1 treatment induced collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and production of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), which were prevented by the ROS scavenger N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC). In addition, 4EGI-1 inhibited mitochondrial ATP synthesis via suppressing complex I activity, but had no effects on mitochondrial biogenesis. The results of fluorescence staining showed that 4EGI-1 indeed fragmented the mitochondrial network of U251 cells. We found a significant decrease in optic atrophy type 1 (Opa-1) and mitofusin 1 (Mfn-1) related to fusion proteins as well as an increase in fission protein dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp-1). Furthermore, the anti-cancer effects of 4GI-1 were partially nullified by knock down of Drp-1 using siRNA. These data indicate that the use of inhibitors that directly target the translation initiation complex eIF4F could represent a potential novel approach for human glioma therapy.
Activation of quiescent hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) is the central event of liver fibrosis. The translational machinery is an optimized molecular network that affects cellular homoeostasis and diseases, whereas the role of protein translation in HSCs activation and liver fibrosis is little defined. Our previous report suggests that up-regulation of receptor for activated C-kinase 1(RACK1) in HSCs is critical for liver fibrogenesis. In this study, we found that RACK1 promoted macrophage conditioned medium (MCM)-induced assembly of eIF4F and phosphorylation of eIF4E in primary HSCs. RACK1 enhanced the translation and expression of pro-fibrogenic factors collagen 1α1, snail and cyclin E1 induced by MCM. Administration of PP242 or knock-down of eIF4E suppressed RACK1-stimulated collagen 1α1 production, proliferation and migration in primary HSCs. In addition, depletion of eIF4E attenuated thioacetamide (TAA)-induced liver fibrosis in vivo. Our data suggest that RACK1-mediated stimulation of cap-dependent translation plays crucial roles in HSCs activation and liver fibrogenesis, and targeting translation initiation could be a promising strategy for the treatment of liver fibrosis.
Deregulated mRNA translation has been implicated in disease development and in part is controlled by a eukaryotic initiation complex eIF4F (composed of eIF4E, eIF4G and eIF4A). We demonstrate here that the cap bound fraction from lymphoma cells was enriched with eIF4G and eIF4E indicating that lymphoma cells exist in an activated translational state. Moreover, 77% (110/142) of diffuse large B cell lymphoma tumors expressed eIF4E and this was associated with an inferior event free survival. Over-expression of wild-type eIF4E (eIF4E(WT)) but not cap-mutant eIF4E (eIF4E(cap mutant)) increased the activation of the eIF4F complex. Treatment with the active-site dual mTOR inhibitor CC214-1 reduced the level of the eIF4F complex by decreasing the cap bound fraction of eIF4G and increasing the levels of 4E-BP1. CC214-1 inhibited both the cap dependent and global protein translation. CC214-1 inhibited c-Myc, and cyclin D3 translation by decreasing polysomal fractions from lymphoma cells. Inhibition of eIF4E with shRNA further decreased the CC214-1 induced inhibition of the eIF4F complex, c-Myc, cyclin D3 translation, and colony formation. These studies demonstrate that the eIF4F complex is deregulated in aggressive lymphoma and that dual mTOR therapy has therapeutic potential in these patients.
Initiation is a highly regulated rate-limiting step of mRNA translation. During cap-dependent translation, the cap-binding protein eIF4E recruits the mRNA to the ribosome. Specific elements in the 5'UTR of some mRNAs referred to as Internal Ribosome Entry Sites (IRESes) allow direct association of the mRNA with the ribosome without the requirement for eIF4E. Cap-independent initiation permits translation of a subset of cellular and viral mRNAs under conditions wherein cap-dependent translation is inhibited, such as stress, mitosis and viral infection. DAP5 is an eIF4G homolog that has been proposed to regulate both cap-dependent and cap-independent translation. Herein, we demonstrate that DAP5 associates with eIF2β and eIF4AI to stimulate IRES-dependent translation of cellular mRNAs. In contrast, DAP5 is dispensable for cap-dependent translation. These findings provide the first mechanistic insights into the function of DAP5 as a selective regulator of cap-independent translation.
Accumulating data indicate translation plays a role in cancer biology, particularly its rate limiting stage of initiation. Despite this evolving recognition, the function and importance of specific translation initiation factors is unresolved. The eukaryotic translation initiation complex eIF4F consists of eIF4E and eIF4G at a 1:1 ratio. Although it is expected that they display interdependent functions, several publications suggest independent mechanisms. This study is the first to directly assess the relative contribution of eIF4F components to the expressed cellular proteome, transcription factors, microRNAs, and phenotype in a malignancy known for extensive protein synthesis-multiple myeloma (MM). Previously, we have shown that eIF4E/eIF4GI attenuation (siRNA/Avastin) deleteriously affected MM cells' fate and reduced levels of eIF4E/eIF4GI established targets. Here, we demonstrated that eIF4E/eIF4GI indeed have individual influences on cell proteome. We used an objective, high throughput assay of mRNA microarrays to examine the significance of eIF4E/eIF4GI silencing to several cellular facets such as transcription factors, microRNAs and phenotype. We showed different imprints for eIF4E and eIF4GI in all assayed aspects. These results promote our understanding of the relative contribution and importance of eIF4E and eIF4GI to the malignant phenotype and shed light on their function in eIF4F translation initiation complex.
Here, we have addressed the mechanisms that determine genesis of the correct numbers of neurons during development, focusing on the embryonic cortex. We identify in neural precursors a repressive complex involving eIF4E1 and its binding partner 4E-T that coordinately represses translation of proteins that determine neurogenesis. This eIF4E1/4E-T complex is present in granules with the processing body proteins Lsm1 and Rck, and disruption of this complex causes premature and enhanced neurogenesis and neural precursor depletion. Analysis of the 4E-T complex shows that it is highly enriched in mRNAs encoding transcription factors and differentiation-related proteins. These include the proneurogenic bHLH mRNAs, which colocalize with 4E-T in granules and whose protein products are aberrantly upregulated following knockdown of eIF4E, 4E-T, or processing body proteins. Thus, neural precursors are transcriptionally primed to generate neurons, but an eIF4E/4E-T complex sequesters and represses translation of proneurogenic proteins to determine appropriate neurogenesis.
Hypoxia promotes tumor evolution and metastasis, and hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) is a key regulator of hypoxia-related cellular processes in cancer. The eIF4E translation initiation factors, eIF4E1, eIF4E2, and eIF4E3, are essential for translation initiation. However, whether and how HIF-1α affects cap-dependent translation through eIF4Es in hypoxic cancer cells has been unknown. Here, we report that HIF-1α promoted cap-dependent translation of selective mRNAs through up-regulation of eIF4E1 in hypoxic breast cancer cells. Hypoxia-promoted breast cancer tumorsphere growth was HIF-1α-dependent. We found that eIF4E1, not eIF4E2 or eIF4E3, is the dominant eIF4E family member in breast cancer cells under both normoxia and hypoxia conditions. eIF4E3 expression was largely sequestered in breast cancer cells at normoxia and hypoxia. Hypoxia up-regulated the expression of eIF4E1 and eIF4E2, but only eIF4E1 expression was HIF-1α-dependent. In hypoxic cancer cells, HIF-1α-up-regulated eIF4E1 enhanced cap-dependent translation of a subset of mRNAs encoding proteins important for breast cancer cell mammosphere growth. In searching for correlations, we discovered that human eIF4E1 promoter harbors multiple potential hypoxia response elements. Furthermore, using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and luciferase and point mutation assays, we found that HIF-1α utilized hypoxia response elements in the human eIF4E1 proximal promoter region to activate eIF4E1 expression. Our study suggests that HIF-1α promotes cap-dependent translation of selective mRNAs through up-regulating eIF4E1, which contributes to tumorsphere growth of breast cancer cells at hypoxia. The data shown provide new insights into protein synthesis mechanisms in cancer cells at low oxygen levels.
The number of paralogs of proteins involved in translation initiation is larger in trypanosomes than in yeasts or many metazoan and includes two poly(A) binding proteins, PABP1 and PABP2, and four eIF4E variants. In many cases, the paralogs are individually essential and are thus unlikely to have redundant functions although, as yet, distinct functions of different isoforms have not been determined. Here, trypanosome PABP1 and PABP2 have been further characterised. PABP1 and PABP2 diverged subsequent to the differentiation of the Kinetoplastae lineage, supporting the existence of specific aspects of translation initiation regulation. PABP1 and PABP2 exhibit major differences in intracellular localization and distribution on polysome fractionation under various conditions that interfere with mRNA metabolism. Most striking are differences in localization to the four known types of inducible RNP granules. Moreover, only PABP2 but not PABP1 can accumulate in the nucleus. Taken together, these observations indicate that PABP1 and PABP2 likely associate with distinct populations of mRNAs. The differences in localization to inducible RNP granules also apply to paralogs of components of the eIF4F complex: eIF4E1 showed similar localization pattern to PABP2, whereas the localisation of eIF4E4 and eIF4G3 resembled that of PABP1. The grouping of translation initiation as either colocalizing with PABP1 or with PABP2 can be used to complement interaction studies to further define the translation initiation complexes in kinetoplastids.
In addition to being essential for translation of eukaryotic mRNA, translation initiation factors are also key components of plant-virus interactions. In order to address the involvement of these factors in the infectious cycle of poleroviruses (aphid-transmitted, phloem-limited viruses), the accumulation of three poleroviruses was followed in Arabidopsis thaliana mutant lines impaired in the synthesis of translation initiation factors in the eIF4E and eIF4G families. We found that efficient accumulation of Turnip yellows virus (TuYV) in A. thaliana relies on the presence of eIF (iso)4G1, whereas Beet mild yellowing virus (BMYV) and Beet western yellows virus-USA (BWYV-USA) rely, instead, on eIF4E1. A role for these factors in the infectious processes of TuYV and BMYV was confirmed by direct interaction in yeast between these specific factors and the 5' viral genome-linked protein of the related virus. Although the underlying molecular mechanism is still unknown, this study reveals a totally unforeseen situation in which closely related viruses belonging to the same genus use different translation initiation factors for efficient infection of A. thaliana.
The eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF4E plays a key role in plant-potyvirus interactions. eIF4E belongs to a small multigenic family and three genes, eIF4E1, eIF4E2 and eIF(iso)4E, have been identified in tomato. It has been demonstrated that eIF4E-mediated natural recessive resistances against potyviruses result from non-synonymous mutations in an eIF4E protein, which impair its direct interaction with the potyviral protein VPg. In tomato, the role of eIF4E proteins in potyvirus resistance is still unclear because natural or induced mutations in eIF4E1 confer only a narrow resistance spectrum against potyviruses. This contrasts with the broad spectrum resistance identified in the natural diversity of tomato. These results suggest that more than one eIF4E protein form is involved in the observed broad spectrum resistance.
To gain insight into the respective contribution of each eIF4E protein in tomato-potyvirus interactions, two tomato lines silenced for both eIF4E1 and eIF4E2 (RNAi-4E) and two lines silenced for eIF(iso)4E (RNAi-iso4E) were obtained and characterized. RNAi-4E lines are slightly impaired in their growth and fertility, whereas no obvious growth defects were observed in RNAi-iso4E lines. The F1 hybrid between RNAi-4E and RNAi-iso4E lines presented a pronounced semi-dwarf phenotype. Interestingly, the RNAi-4E lines silenced for both eIF4E1 and eIF4E2 showed broad spectrum resistance to potyviruses while the RNAi-iso4E lines were fully susceptible to potyviruses. Yeast two-hybrid interaction assays between the three eIF4E proteins and a set of viral VPgs identified two types of VPgs: those that interacted only with eIF4E1 and those that interacted with either eIF4E1 or with eIF4E2.
These experiments provide evidence for the involvement of both eIF4E1 and eIF4E2 in broad spectrum resistance of tomato against potyviruses and suggest a role for eIF4E2 in tomato-potyvirus interactions.
Translation initiation in eukaryotes requires eIF4E, the cap binding protein, which mediates its function through an interaction with the scaffolding protein eIF4G, as part of the eIF4F complex. In trypanosomatids, four eIF4E homologues have been described but the specific function of each is not well characterized. Here, we report a study of these proteins in Trypanosoma brucei (TbEIF4E1 through 4). At the sequence level, they can be assigned to two groups: TbEIF4E1 and 2, similar in size to metazoan eIF4E1; and TbEIF4E3 and 4, with long N-terminal extensions. All are constitutively expressed, but whilst TbEIF4E1 and 2 localize to both the nucleus and cytoplasm, TbEIF4E3 and 4 are strictly cytoplasmic and are also more abundant. After knockdown through RNAi, TbEIF4E3 was the only homologue confirmed to be essential for viability of the insect procyclic form. In contrast, TbEIF4E1, 3 and 4 were all essential for the mammalian bloodstream form. Simultaneous RNAi knockdown of TbEIF4E1 and 2 caused cessation of growth and death in procyclics, but with a delayed impact on translation, whilst knockdown of TbEIF4E3 alone or a combined TbEIF4E1 and 4 knockdown led to substantial translation inhibition which preceded cellular death by several days, at least. Only TbEIF4E3 and 4 were found to interact with T. brucei eIF4G homologues; TbEIF4E3 bound both TbEIF4G3 and 4 whilst TbEIF4E4 bound only to TbEIF4G3. These results are consistent with TbEIF4E3 and 4 having distinct but relevant roles in initiation of protein synthesis.
The present study is the first report providing evidence for a physiological role of a truncated form of the mRNA cap-binding protein eIF4E1 (eukaryotic initiation factor 4E1). Our initial observation was that eIF4E, which mediates the mRNA cap function by recruiting the eIF4F complex (composed of eIF4E, 4G and 4A), occurs in two forms in porcine endometrial tissue in a strictly temporally restricted fashion. The ubiquitous prototypical 25 kDa form of eIF4E was found in ovariectomized and cyclic animals. A new stable 23 kDa variant, however, is predominant during early pregnancy at the time of implantation. Northern blotting, cDNA sequence analysis, in vitro protease assays and MS showed that the 23 kDa form does not belong to a new class of eIF4E proteins. It represents a proteolytically processed variant of eIF4E1, lacking not more than 21 amino acids at the N-terminus. Steroid replacements indicated that progesterone in combination with 17β-oestradiol induced the formation of the 23 kDa eIF4E. Modified cell-free translation systems mimicking the situation in the endometrium revealed that, besides eIF4E, eIF4G was also truncated, but not eIF4A or PABP [poly(A)-binding protein]. The 23 kDa form of eIF4E reduced the repressive function of 4E-BP1 (eIF4E-binding protein 1) and the truncated eIF4G lacked the PABP-binding site. Thus we suggest that the truncated eIF4E provides an alternative regulation mechanism by an altered dynamic of eIF4E/4E-BP1 binding under conditions where 4E-BP1 is hypophosphorylated. Together with the impaired eIF4G-PABP interaction, the modified translational initiation might particularly regulate protein synthesis during conceptus attachment at the time of implantation.
The characterization of natural recessive resistance genes and Arabidopsis virus-resistant mutants have implicated translation initiation factors of the eIF4E and eIF4G families as susceptibility factors required for virus infection and resistance function.
To investigate further the role of translation initiation factors in virus resistance we set up a TILLING platform in tomato, cloned genes encoding for translation initiation factors eIF4E and eIF4G and screened for induced mutations that lead to virus resistance. A splicing mutant of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor, S.l_eIF4E1 G1485A, was identified and characterized with respect to cap binding activity and resistance spectrum. Molecular analysis of the transcript of the mutant form showed that both the second and the third exons were miss-spliced, leading to a truncated mRNA. The resulting truncated eIF4E1 protein is also impaired in cap-binding activity. The mutant line had no growth defect, likely because of functional redundancy with others eIF4E isoforms. When infected with different potyviruses, the mutant line was immune to two strains of Potato virus Y and Pepper mottle virus and susceptible to Tobacco each virus.
Mutation analysis of translation initiation factors shows that translation initiation factors of the eIF4E family are determinants of plant susceptibility to RNA viruses and viruses have adopted strategies to use different isoforms. This work also demonstrates the effectiveness of TILLING as a reverse genetics tool to improve crop species. We have also developed a complete tool that can be used for both forward and reverse genetics in tomato, for both basic science and crop improvement. By opening it to the community, we hope to fulfill the expectations of both crop breeders and scientists who are using tomato as their model of study.
The transcriptionally active, growing oocyte accumulates mRNAs essential for early stages of development, the oocyte-to-embryo transition, in a stable, dormant form. Translational repression of mRNAs in eggs of various species is conferred by interactions, either direct or via intermediate proteins, of repressive factors bound to the 3'-untranslated regions with the proteins of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) family bound to the 5'-cap of the transcripts. Recently, a novel oocyte-specific eIF4E encoded by the Eif41b gene in mammals has been identified by our group. To further investigate this gene, the available cDNA libraries, as well as genome assemblies of nonmammalian vertebrates, were surveyed. This analysis revealed that the Eif4e1b gene arose in Tetrapoda as a result of the ancestral Eif4e locus duplication. Unlike other known proteins of three subfamilies comprising eIF4E family (eIF4E1, eIF4E2, and eIF4E3), cDNA library evidence suggests that Eif41b locus has an oocyte-restricted expression across all classes of Tetrapoda. To further understand the role of eIF4E1B during oocyte maturation, injections of antisense morpholino nucleotides in the X. tropicalis fully-grown stage VI oocytes were performed. The resulted ablation of eIF4E1B protein led to significant acceleration of oocyte maturation after progesterone induction; morpholino-injected oocytes formed the metaphase plate 30 min faster than the control groups. These results suggest that eIF4E1B protein acts as a repressor in translational regulation of maternal mRNAs activated during, and required for, oocyte maturation.
Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) binds to the m(7)GTP of capped mRNAs and is an essential component of the translational machinery that recruits the 40S small ribosomal subunit. We describe here the identification and characterization of two eIF4E homologues in an ancient protist, Giardia lamblia. Using m(7)GTP-Sepharose affinity column chromatography, a specific binding protein was isolated and identified as Giardia eIF4E2. The other homologue, Giardia eIF4E1, bound only to the m(2,2,7)GpppN structure. Although neither homologue can rescue the function of yeast eIF4E, a knockdown of eIF4E2 mRNA in Giardia by a virus-based antisense ribozyme decreased translation, which was shown to use m(7)GpppN-capped mRNA as a template. Thus, eIF4E2 is likely the cap-binding protein in a translation initiation complex. The same knockdown approach indicated that eIF4E1 is not required for translation in Giardia. Immunofluorescence assays showed wide distribution of both homologues in the cytoplasm. But eIF4E1 was also found concentrated and colocalized with the m(2,2,7)GpppN cap, 16S-like rRNA, and fibrillarin in the nucleolus-like structure in the nucleus. eIF4E1 depletion from Giardia did not affect mRNA splicing, but the protein was bound to Giardia small nuclear RNAs D and H known to have an m(2,2,7)GpppN cap, thus suggesting a novel function not yet observed among other eIF4Es in eukaryotes.
The eukaryotic cap-binding proteins belonging to the eIF4E family are generally involved in mediating the recruitment of ribosomes to capped mRNA. We described previously a cap-binding protein (now called eIF4E1) in Schizosaccharomyces pombe that appears to have all of the usual structural and functional attributes of an eIF4E. We have now characterised a new type of cap-binding protein (eIF4E2) from this organism, which at the amino acid sequence level, is 52% identical and 59% similar to eIF4E1. eIF4E2 is not essential in S.pombe but has some novel properties that may be related to a special function in the cell. The ratio of eIF4E2:eIF4E1 in the cell shifts in favour of eIF4E2 at higher temperatures. Despite having all of the dorsal face amino acids that have so far been associated with eIF4G binding to eIF4E1, eIF4E2 binds the eIF4E-binding domain of S.pombe eIF4G >10(2)-times weaker than eIF4E1 in vitro. The eIF4E2 cap-binding affinity is in the typical micromolar range. The results suggest that eIF4E2 is not active on the main pathway of translation initiation in fission yeast but might play a role in the adaptation strategy of this organism under specific growth conditions. Moreover, they provide insight into the molecular characteristics required for tight binding to eIF4G.
Two cDNAs (At.EIF4E1 and At.EIF4E2) encoding, respectively, the eukaryotic initiation factors eIF4E and eIF(iso)4E of Arabidopsis thaliana were isolated by complementation of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae conditional mutant. The deduced amino acid sequences of the proteins are homologous to those from monocotyledonous plants, yeast and mammals. The corresponding genes were identified in YAC clones mapping to chromosome IV (At.EIF4E1) and to chromosome V (At.EIF4E2). The yeast strain complemented by At.EIF4E2 grew poorly compared with an isogenic strain expressing At.EIF4E1. Northern and in situ hybridization analysis show that both Arabidopsis At.EIF4E1 and At.EIF4E2 mRNAs are differentially accumulated in plant tissues. The At.EIF4E1 mRNA is expressed in all tissues except in the cells of the specialization zone of the roots; the At.EIF4E2 mRNA is particularly abundant in floral organs and in young developing tissues. This work further demonstrates an association between a high level of EIF4E mRNAs and cell proliferation and suggests that the plant eIF4E isoforms may have distinct functions in cell development and metabolism.
Two human eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) genes were isolated and characterized from placental and chromosome 4-specific genomic libraries. One of the genes (EIF4E1) contained six introns, but the other gene (EIF4E2) was intronless, flanked by Alu sequences and 14-base pair (bp) direct repeats, and terminated by a short poly(A) stretch, all characteristics of retrotransposons. Numerous additional intronless eIF4E pseudogenes were found, but unlike EIF4E2, all contained premature in-frame stop codons. The entire EIF4E1 gene spanned >50 kilobase pairs. The coding regions of these two genes differed in four nucleotide residues, resulting in two amino acid differences in the predicted proteins. The promoter of EIF4E1 has been characterized previously. The putative promoter of EIF4E2 contained no TATA box but did contain a transcription initiator region (Inr) and numerous other sequence motifs characteristic of regulated promoters. EIF4E2 contained only two of the three polyadenylation signals present in EIF4E1. Evidence for transcription of both genes was obtained from primer extension, S1 mapping, ribonuclease protection, and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction experiments. Transcription was found to initiate 19 bp upstream of the translational initiation codon in the case of EIF4E1 and 80 bp in the case of EIF4E2. The two genes were differentially expressed in four human cell lines, Wish, Chang, K562, and HeLa.
The phosphorylation of eIF4E1 at serine 209 by MNK1 or MNK2 has been shown to initiate oncogenic mRNA translation, a process that favours cancer development and maintenance. Here, we interrogate the MNK-eIF4E axis in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and show a distinct distribution of MNK1 and MNK2 in germinal centre B-cell (GCB) and activated B-cell (ABC) DLBCL. Despite displaying a differential distribution in GCB and ABC, both MNKs functionally complement each other to sustain cell survival. MNK inhibition ablates eIF4E1 phosphorylation and concurrently enhances eIF4E3 expression. Loss of MNK protein itself downregulates total eIF4E1 protein level by reducing eIF4E1 mRNA polysomal loading without affecting total mRNA level or stability. Enhanced eIF4E3 expression marginally suppresses eIF4E1-driven translation but exhibits a unique translatome that unveils a novel role for eIF4E3 in translation initiation. We propose that MNKs can modulate oncogenic translation by regulating eIF4E1-eIF4E3 levels and activity in DLBCL.
In plants, eIF4E translation initiation factors and their eIFiso4E isoforms are essential susceptibility factors for many RNA viruses, including potyviruses. Mutations altering these factors are a major source of resistance to the viruses. The eIF4E allelic series is associated with specific resistance spectra in crops such as Capsicum annum. Genetic evidence shows that potyviruses have a specific requirement for a given 4E isoform that depends on the host plant. For example, Tobacco etch virus (TEV) uses eIF4E1 to infect Capsicum annuum but uses eIFiso4E to infect Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we investigated how TEV exploits different translation initiation factor isoforms to infect these two plant species.
A complementation system was set up in Arabidopsis to test the restoration of systemic infection by TEV. Using this system, Arabidopsis susceptibility to TEV was complemented with a susceptible pepper eIF4E1 allele but not with a resistant allele. Therefore, in Arabidopsis, TEV can use the pepper eIF4E1 instead of the endogenous eIFiso4E isoform so is able to switch between translation initiation factor 4E isoform to infect the same host. Moreover, we show that overexpressing the pepper eIF4E1 alleles is sufficient to make Arabidopsis susceptible to an otherwise incompatible TEV strain. Lastly, we show that the resistant eIF4E1 allele is similarly overcome by a resistance-breaking TEV strain as in pepper, confirming that this Arabidopsis TEV-susceptibility complementation system is allele-specific.
We report here a complementation system in Arabidopsis that makes it possible to assess the role of pepper pvr2-eIF4E alleles in susceptibility to TEV. Heterologous complementation experiments showed that the idiosyncratic properties of the 4E and iso4E proteins create a major checkpoint for viral infection of different hosts. This system could be used to screen natural or induced eIF4E alleles to find and study alleles of interest for plant breeding.
In eukaryotes, eIF4E translation initiation factors are essential proteins encoded by a small multigene family. In plants, they are a major source of host plant resistance to potyviruses that require specific 4E factors to infect cells. Combining mutations in different eIF4E genes could be a way of broadening the spectrum of plant resistance to viruses. We attempted to combine null mutations affecting the two main Arabidopsis thaliana 4E factors eIF4E1 and eIFiso4E but discovered that this combination is lethal. Transmission through the male gametophyte is completely abolished in the eif4e1 eifiso4e double mutant. This shows that eIF4E1 and eIFiso4E are essential for male gametophyte development and act redundantly. These results may have implications for eIF4E-based pyramiding strategies to improve crop resistance.
In addition to the canonical eIF4E cap-binding protein, eukaryotes have evolved sequence-related variants with distinct features, some of which have been shown to negatively regulate translation of particular mRNAs, but which remain poorly characterised. Mammalian eIF4E proteins have been divided into three classes, with class I representing the canonical cap-binding protein eIF4E1. eIF4E1 binds eIF4G to initiate translation, and other eIF4E-binding proteins such as 4E-BPs and 4E-T prevent this interaction by binding eIF4E1 with the same consensus sequence YX 4Lϕ. We investigate here the interaction of human eIF4E2 (4EHP), a class II eIF4E protein, which binds the cap weakly, with eIF4E-transporter protein, 4E-T. We first show that ratios of eIF4E1:4E-T range from 50:1 to 15:1 in HeLa and HEK293 cells respectively, while those of eIF4E2:4E-T vary from 6:1 to 3:1. We next provide evidence that eIF4E2 binds 4E-T in the yeast two hybrid assay, as well as in pull-down assays and by recruitment to P-bodies in mammalian cells. We also show that while both eIF4E1 and eIF4E2 bind 4E-T via the canonical YX 4Lϕ sequence, nearby downstream sequences also influence eIF4E:4E-T interactions. Indirect immunofluorescence was used to demonstrate that eIF4E2, normally homogeneously localised in the cytoplasm, does not redistribute to stress granules in arsenite-treated cells, nor to P-bodies in Actinomycin D-treated cells, in contrast to eIF4E1. Moreover, eIF4E2 shuttles through nuclei in a Crm1-dependent manner, but in an 4E-T-independent manner, also unlike eIF4E1. Altogether we conclude that while both cap-binding proteins interact with 4E-T, and can be recruited by 4E-T to P-bodies, eIF4E2 functions are likely to be distinct from those of eIF4E1, both in the cytoplasm and nucleus, further extending our understanding of mammalian class I and II cap-binding proteins.
Two related eukaryotic initiation factor-4E binding proteins (4E-BP1 and 4E-BP2) were recently characterized for their capacity to bind specifically to eIF4E and inhibit its function. Here, we determined the cDNA sequence, tissue distribution, genomic structure, and chromosome localization of murine and human 4E-BP1 and 4E-BP2. Mouse 4E-BP1 and 4E-BP2 consist of 117 and 120 amino acids and exhibit 91. 5 and 95.0% identity, respectively, to their human homologues. 4E-BP1 mRNA is expressed in most tissues, but is most abundant in adipose tissue, pancreas, and skeletal muscle, while 4E-BP2 mRNA is ubiquitously expressed. The structures of the mouse 4E-BP1 and 4E-BP2 were determined. The 4E-BP1 gene consists of three exons and spans approximately 16 kb. In addition, two 4E-BP1 pseudogenes exist in the mouse genome. The 4E-BP2 gene spans approximately 20 kb and exhibits an identical genomic organization to that of 4E-BP1, with the protein coding portion of the gene divided into three exons. There are no pseudogenes for 4E-BP2. The chromosomal locations of 4E-BP1 and 4E-BP2 were determined in both mice and humans by fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis. Mouse 4E-BP1 and 4E-BP2 map to chromosomes 8 (A4-B1) and 10 (B4-B5), respectively, and human 4E-BP1 and 4E-BP2 localize to chromosomes 8p12 and 10q21-q22, respectively.
This study explored the effects of pantothenic acid (PA) on the immune and physical barrier function, and relative mRNA levels of signaling molecules in the gill of grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella). The results indicated that compared with optimal PA supplementation, PA deficiency (1.31 mg/kg diet) decreased gill interleukin 10, transforming growth factor β1, inhibitor of κBα (IκBα), eIF4E-binding protein 2, Claudin b and ZO-1 mRNA levels; anti-superoxide anion activity, and activities and mRNA levels of copper/zinc superoxide dismutase, manganese superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase and NF-E2-related factor (P < 0.05). Additionally, PA deficiency and excess (75.08 mg/kg diet) decreased gill complement 3 and glutathione contents, lysozyme and acid phosphatase, anti-hydroxy radical, catalase and glutathione S-transferases activities, and liver-expression antimicrobial peptide 2, hepcidin, Claudin 3, Claudin c and Occludin mRNA levels (P < 0.05). Conversely, PA deficiency increased gill reactive oxygen species and protein carbonyl contents, and interferon γ2, interleukin 8, nuclear factor kappa B P65, Claudin 15a, Kelch-like ECH-associating protein 1a and Kelch-like ECH-associating protein 1b mRNA levels (P<0.05). Moreover, PA deficiency and excess increased gill malondialdehyde content, and tumor necrosis factor α, interleukin 1β, IκB kinase α, IκB kinase β, IκB kinase γ, target of rapamycin and ribosomal S6 protein kinase1 p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases and myosin light-chain kinase mRNA levels (P<0.05). In conclusion, PA deﬁciency decreased immune and physical barrier function, and regulated relative mRNA levels of signaling molecules in fish gill. Based on the quadratic regression analysis of gill lysozyme activity, the optimal PA levels in grass carp (253.44-745.25 g) were estimated to be 36.97 mg/kg diet.
Several plant viruses encode elements at the 5' end of their RNAs that, unlike most cellular mRNAs, can initiate translation in the absence of a 5' m7GpppG cap. Here, we describe an exceptionally long (739 nt) leader sequence in Triticum mosaic virus (TriMV), a recently-emerged wheat pathogen that belongs to the Potyviridae family of positive-strand RNA viruses. We demonstrate that the TriMV 5' leader drives strong cap-independent translation in both wheat germ extract and oat protoplasts through a novel, non-canonical translation mechanism. Translation preferentially initiates at the 13(th) start codon within the leader sequence independently of eIF4E, but involves eIF4G. We truncated the 5' leader to a 300-nucleotide sequence that drives cap-independent translation from the 5' end. Within this sequence, we show that the translation activity relies on a stem loop structure identified at nucleotide position 469-490. The disruption of the stem significantly impairs the function of the 5' UTR in driving translation and competing against a capped RNA. Additionally, the TriMV 5' UTR can direct translation from an internal position of a bicistronic mRNA. And unlike cap-driven translation, it is unimpaired when the 5' end is blocked by a strong hairpin in a monocistronic reporter. However, the disruption of the identified stem structure eliminates such translational advantage. Our results reveal a potent and uniquely-controlled translation enhancer that may provide new insights into mechanisms of plant virus translational regulation.
Many members of the Potyviridae family rely on their 5' end for translation. Here, we show that the 739 nucleotide-long Triticum mosaic virus 5' leader bears a powerful translation element with features distinct from those described for other plant viruses. Despite the presence of twelve AUG start codons within the TriMV 5' UTR, translation primarily initiates at the 13(th) AUG codon. The TriMV 5' UTR is capable of driving cap-independent translation in vitro and in vivo, is independent of eIF4E, and can drive internal translation initiation. A hairpin structure at nucleotide position 469-490 is required for cap-independent translation and internal translation initiation abilities of the element, and plays a role in the ability of the TriMV UTR to compete against a capped RNA in vitro. Our results reveal a novel translation enhancer that may provide new insights into the large diversity among plant virus translation mechanisms.
In adult tissues, stem and progenitor cells must balance proliferation and differentiation to maintain homeostasis. How this is done is unclear. Here, we show that the DEAD box RNA helicase, DDX6 is necessary for maintaining adult progenitor cell function. DDX6 loss results in premature differentiation and decreased proliferation of epidermal progenitor cells. To maintain self-renewal, DDX6 associates with YBX1 to bind the stem loops found in the 3' UTRs of regulators of proliferation/self-renewal (CDK1, EZH2) and recruit them to EIF4E to facilitate their translation. To prevent premature differentiation of progenitor cells, DDX6 regulates the 5' UTR of differentiation inducing transcription factor, KLF4 and degrades its transcripts through association with mRNA degradation proteins. Our results demonstrate that progenitor function is maintained by DDX6 complexes through two distinct pathways that include the degradation of differentiation-inducing transcripts and by promoting the translation of self-renewal and proliferation mRNAs.
Deregulation of protein synthesis is a common event in cancer. As MAPK-interacting kinases (Mnks) play critical roles in regulation of protein synthesis, they have emerged as novel anti-cancer targets. Mnks phosphorylate eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) and promote eIF4E-mediated oncogenic activity. Given that the kinase activity of Mnks is essential for oncogenesis but is dispensable for normal development, the discovery of potent and selective pharmacological Mnk inhibitors provides pharmacological target validation and offers a new strategy for cancer treatment. Herein, comprehensive in silico screening approaches were deployed, and three thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidine and pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine derivatives were identified as hit compounds. Further chemical modification of thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidine derivative 3 has given rise to a series of highly potent Mnk2 inhibitors that could be potential leads for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia.
To explore the clinical significance of eukaryotic initiation factor 4 E (eIF4E) and mammalian target of rapamycin(mTOR) expressions in esophageal squamous carcinoma tissues.
Clinicopathological data and paraffin samples of resected tumor tissue from 148 patients with esophageal squamous carcinoma undergoing resection in our department between January 2010 and December 2012 were collected retrospectively. Expressions of eIF4E and mTOR were detected in above carcinoma tissues, counterpart para-carcinoma tissues (1 cm distance to carcinoma) and normal tissues (5 cm distance to carcinoma) with Western blot and immunohistochemistry. Their relevance with clinicopathological features was analyzed.
Expression of mTOR located mainly in cytoplasm and elF4E mainly in cellular membrane, presenting as yellow grains. These two markers showed strong expression in carcinoma tissues and weak or none in para-carcinoma tissues. In esophageal squamous carcinoma tissues, counterpart para-carcinoma tissues and normal tissues, mTOR protein expression was 85.8%(127/148), 35.1%(52/148) and 3.4%(5/148), eIF4E protein expression was 93.9%(139/148), 35.1%(52/148) and 12.8%(19/148), with a downtrend respectively (all P<0.05). Expressions of mTOR and eIF4E were associated with tumor invasion depth and lymphatic metastasis (all P<0.05), while mTOR expression was associated with differentiation degree (P=0.003), but eIF4E expression was not. Both expressions were not associated with gender, age, and tumor size(all P>0.05).
Expressions of eIF4E and mTOR are up-regulated in esophageal squamous carcinoma tissues, which may be associated with tumor malignance and lymphatic metastasis of esophageal squamous carcinoma. Combined detection of two markers may be helpful to predict the tumor malignance and the prognosis of patients.
The chronic activation of the mechanistic (mammalian) target of rapamycin in complex 1 (mTORC1) in response to excess nutrients contributes to obesity-associated pathologies.
To understand the initial events that ultimately lead to obesity-associated pathologies, the present study assessed mTORC1 responses in the liver after a relatively short exposure to a high-fat diet (HFD).
Male, obesity-prone rats were meal-trained to consume either a control (CON; 10% of energy from fat) diet or an HFD (60% of energy from fat) for 2 wk. Livers were collected and analyzed for mTORC1 signaling [assessed by changes in phosphorylation of 70-kDa ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1 (p70S6K1) and eukaryotic initiation factor 4E binding protein 1 (4E-BP1)] and potential regulatory mechanisms, including changes in the association of Ras-related GTP binding (Rag) A and RagC with mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) and expression of Sestrin1, Sestrin2, and Sestrin3.
Feeding-induced activation of mTORC1 was blunted in the livers of rats fed the HFD compared with those fed the CON diet (p70S6K1 phosphorylation, 19% of CON; 4E-BP1 phosphorylation, 61% of CON). The attenuated response was not due to a change in a kinase also referred to as protein kinase B (Akt) signaling but rather to resistance to amino acid-induced activation of mTORC1, as evidenced by a reduction in the interaction of RagA (69% of CON) and RagC (66% of CON) with mTOR and enhanced expression of the mTORC1 repressors Sestrin2 (132% of CON) and Sestrin3 (143% of CON). The consumption of an HFD led to impaired amino acid-induced activation of mTORC1 as assessed in livers perfused in situ with medium containing various concentrations of amino acids.
These results in rats support a model in which the initial response of the liver to an HFD is an attenuation of rather than the expected activation of mTORC1. The initial response likely represents a counterregulatory mechanism to the onset of excess nutrients and is caused by enhanced expression of Sestrin2 and Sestrin3, which, in turn, leads to impaired Rag signaling, resulting in resistance to amino acid-induced activation of mTORC1.
Messenger RNA is recruited to the eukaryotic ribosome by a complex including the eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF) 4E (the cap-binding protein), the scaffold protein eIF4G and the RNA helicase eIF4A. To shut-off host-cell protein synthesis, eIF4G is cleaved during picornaviral infection by a virally encoded proteinase; the structural basis of this reaction and its stimulation by eIF4E is unclear. We have structurally and biochemically investigated the interaction of purified foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) leader proteinase (Lb(pro) ), human rhinovirus 2 (HRV2) 2A proteinase (2A(pro) ) and coxsackievirus B4 (CVB4) 2A(pro) with purified eIF4GII, eIF4E and the eIF4GII/eIF4E complex. Using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), we completed (13) C/(15) N sequential backbone assignment of human eIF4GII residues 551-745 and examined their binding to murine eIF4E. eIF4GII551-745 is intrinsically unstructured and remains so when bound to eIF4E. NMR and biophysical techniques for determining stoichiometry and binding constants revealed that the papain-like Lb(pro) only forms a stable complex with eIF4GII551-745 in the presence of eIF4E, with KD values in the low nanomolar range; Lb(pro) contacts both eIF4GII and eIF4E. Furthermore, the unrelated chymotrypsin-like 2A(pro) from HRV2 and CVB4 also build a stable complex with eIF4GII/eIF4E, but with KD values in the low micromolar range. The HRV2 enzyme also forms a stable complex with eIF4E; however, none of the proteinases tested complex stably with eIF4GII alone. Thus, these three picornaviral proteinases have independently evolved to establish distinct triangular heterotrimeric protein complexes that may actively target ribosomes involved in mRNA recruitment to ensure efficient host cell shut-off.
Preventing breast cancer will require the development of targeted strategies that can effectively block disease progression. Tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors are effective in addressing estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancer development, but estrogen receptor-negative (ER-) breast cancer remains an unmet challenge due to gaps in pathobiological understanding. In this study, we used reverse phase protein array (RPPA) to identify activation of Src kinase as an early signaling alteration in premalignant breast lesions of women who did not respond to tamoxifen, a widely used ER antagonist for hormonal therapy of breast cancer. Src kinase blockade with the small molecule inhibitor saracatinib prevented the disorganized 3D growth of ER- mammary epithelial cells in vitro and delayed the development of pre-malignant lesions and tumors in vivo in mouse models developing HER2+ and ER- mammary tumors, extending tumor-free and overall survival. Mechanistic investigations revealed that Src blockade reduced glucose metabolism as a result of an inhibition in ERK1/2-MNK1-eIF4E-mediated cap-dependent translation of c-Myc and transcription of the glucose transporter GLUT1, thereby limiting energy available for cell growth. Taken together, our results provide a sound rationale to target Src pathways in premalignant breast lesions to limit the development of breast cancers.
Tristetraprolin (TTP) regulates the expression of AU-rich element-containing mRNAs through promoting the degradation and repressing the translation of target mRNA. While the mechanism for promoting target mRNA degradation has been extensively studied, the mechanism underlying translational repression is not well established. Here we show that TTP recruits eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF) 4E2 to repress target mRNA translation. TTP interacted with eIF4E2 but not with eIF4E. Overexpression of eIF4E2 enhanced TTP-mediated translational repression, and downregulation of endogenous eIF4E2 or overexpression of a truncation mutant of eIF4E2 impaired TTP-mediated translational repression. Overexpression of an eIF4E2 mutant that lost the cap-binding activity also impaired TTP's activity, suggesting that the cap-binding activity of eIF4E2 is important in TTP-mediated translational repression. We further show that TTP promoted eIF4E2 binding to target mRNA. These results implicate that TTP recruits eIF4E2 to compete with eIF4E to repress the translation of target mRNA. This notion is supported by that downregulation of endogenous eIF4E2 increased the production of TNF-alpha protein without affecting the mRNA levels in THP-1 cells. Collectively, these results uncover a novel mechanism by which TTP represses target mRNA translation.
Sugarcane (Saccharum sp. hybrid) provides the main source of sugar for humans. Sugarcane mosaic disease (SMD) is a major threat to sugarcane production. Currently, control of SMD is mainly dependent on breeding resistant cultivars through hybridization, which is time-consuming. Understanding the mechanism of viral infection may facilitate novel strategies to breed cultivars resistant to SMD and to control the disease. In this study, a wide interaction was detected between the viral VPg protein and host proteins. Several genes were screened from sugarcane cDNA library that could interact with Sugarcane streak mosaic virus VPg, including SceIF4E1 and ScELC. ScELC was predicted to be a cytoplasmic protein, but subcellular localization analysis showed it was distributed both in cytoplasmic and nuclear, and interactions were also detected between ScELC and VPg of SCMV or SrMV that reveal ScELC was widely used in the SMD pathogen infection process. ScELC and VPgs interacted in the nucleus, and may function to enhance the viral transcription rate. ScELC also interacted with SceIF4E2 both in the cytoplasm and nucleus, but not with SceIF4E1 and SceIF4E3. These results suggest that ScELC may be essential for the function of SceIF4E2, an isomer of eIF4E.
Ultimately, the production of new proteins in undetermined cells pushes them to new fates. Other proteins hold a stem cell in a mode of self-renewal. In germ cells, these decision-making proteins are produced largely from translational control of preexisting mRNAs. To date, all of the regulation has been attributed to RNA binding proteins (RBPs) that repress mRNAs in many models of germ cell development (Drosophila, mouse, C. elegans, and Xenopus). In this review, we focus on the selective, positive function of translation initiation factors eIF4E and eIF4G, which recruit mRNAs to ribosomes upon derepression. Evidence now shows that the two events are not separate but rather are coordinated through composite complexes of repressors and germ cell isoforms of eIF4 factors. Strikingly, the initiation factor isoforms are themselves mRNA selective. The mRNP complexes of translation factors and RBPs are built on specific populations of mRNAs to prime them for subsequent translation initiation. Simple rearrangement of the partners causes a dormant mRNP to become synthetically active in germ cells when and where they are required to support gametogenesis.
Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling serves as a central regulator of cell growth, proliferation, and survival by interacting with various proteins. To date, few studies implicated mTOR in placenta. Human placenta in gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) shows several alterations including villous immaturity, impaired placental function, and overgrowth. Hence, we aimed to investigate the expression of mTOR, phospho-mTOR (p-mTOR), and the 2 phosphorylated downstream targets of mTOR, ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1 (p-p70S6K), and eukaryotic initiation factor 4E-binding protein 1 (p-4EBP1) in normal term and gestational diabetic human placentas. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot were performed with antibodies against mTOR, p-mTOR, p-p70S6K, and p-4EBP1 (Thr37/46) in normal and diabetic placentas (n = 6 each) and quantified by ImageJ. All mTOR pathway components that we studied were immunolocalized in both normal and diabetic placenta groups. Syncytiotrophoblast and the vascular wall in villi displayed cytoplasmic mTOR and p-mTOR (S2448) immunoreactivities in all placenta samples. However, increased expression of p70S6K in syncytiotrophoblast and p-4EBP1 (Thr37/46) in villous stromal cells was observed in gestational diabetic placentas. Western blot analysis also confirmed the statistically significant increase in p-p70S6K (T389) expression in diabetic placentas. The altered expression of downstream components of mTOR signaling in gestational diabetic placentas suggests an involvement of mTOR activity in the placental pathology of GDM. However, whether increased nutrient transport via this pathway will stimulate fetal and placental overgrowth is still unknown. Although this is a descriptive study, further studies with a functional analysis to highlight the molecular mechanisms underlying this placental pathology are proposed.
Suboptimal nutrient intake represents a limiting factor for growth and long-term survival of low-birth weight infants. The objective of this study was to determine if in neonates who can consume only 70 % of their protein and energy requirements for 8 days, enteral leucine supplementation will upregulate the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway in skeletal muscle, leading to an increase in protein synthesis and muscle anabolism. Nineteen 4-day-old piglets were fed by gastric tube 1 of 3 diets, containing (kg body weight(-1)·day(-1)) 16 g protein and 190 kcal (CON), 10.9 g protein and 132 kcal (R), or 10.8 g protein + 0.2 % leucine and 136 kcal (RL) at 4-h intervals for 8 days. On day 8, plasma AA and insulin levels were measured during 6 post-feeding intervals, and muscle protein synthesis rate and mTOR signaling proteins were determined at 120 min post-feeding. At 120 min, leucine was highest in RL (P < 0.001), whereas insulin, isoleucine and valine were lower in RL and R compared to CON (P < 0.001). Compared to RL and R, the CON diet increased (P < 0.01) body weight, protein synthesis, phosphorylation of S6 kinase (p-S6K1) and 4E-binding protein (p-4EBP1), and activation of eukaryotic initiation factor 4 complex (eIF4E·eIF4G). RL increased (P ≤ 0.01) p-S6K1, p-4EBP1 and eIF4E·eIF4G compared to R. In conclusion, when protein and energy intakes are restricted for 8 days, leucine supplementation increases muscle mTOR activation, but does not improve body weight gain or enhance skeletal muscle protein synthesis in neonatal pigs.
By searching the Expressed Sequence Tag (EST) data base, we identified partial cDNA sequences potentially encoding a novel human CC chemokine. We determined the entire cDNA sequence which encodes a highly basic polypeptide of 134 amino acids total with a putative signal peptide of 23 amino acids. The predicted mature protein of 111 amino acids has the four canonical cysteine residues and shows 21-33% identity to other human CC chemokines, but has a unique carboxyl-terminal extension of about 30 amino acids which contains two extra cysteine residues. The mRNA was expressed strongly in tissues such as the lymph nodes, Appendix, and spleen. The recombinant protein, which was produced by the baculovirus system and purified to homogeneity, was a highly efficient chemoattractant for certain human T cell lines and a highly potent one for freshly isolated peripheral blood lymphocytes and cultured normal T cells expanded by phytohemagglutinin and interleukin 2. Unlike most other CC chemokines, however, this novel chemokine was not chemotactic for monocytes or neutrophils, suggesting that it is specific for lymphocytes. From these results, we designated this novel CC chemokine as SLC from secondary lymphoid-tissue chemokine. SLC fused with the secreted form of alkaline phosphatase (SLC-SEAP) was used to characterize the SLC receptor. Binding of SLC-SEAP to freshly isolated lymphocytes was blocked by SLC (IC50, 0.12 nM) but not by any other CC chemokine so far tested, suggesting that resting lymphocytes express a class of receptors highly specific for SLC. By using somatic cell hybrids, radiation hybrids, and selected yeast and bacterial artificial chromosome clones, we mapped the SLC gene (SCYA21) at chromosome 9p13 and between chromosomal markers, D9S1978(WI-8765) and AFM326vd1, where the gene for another novel CC chemokine termed ELC from EBI1-ligand chemokine (SCYA19) also exists. Collectively, SLC is a novel CC chemokine specific for lymphocytes and, together with ELC, constitutes a new group of chemokines localized at chromosome 9p13.
Any vaginal product that alters the mucosal environment and impairs the immune barrier increases the risk of sexually transmitted infections, especially HIV infection, which thrives on mucosal damage and inflammation. The FDA-recommended rabbit vaginal irritation (RVI) model serves as a first line selection tool for vaginal products; however, for decades it has been limited to histopathology scoring, insufficient to select safe anti-HIV microbicides. In this study we incorporate to the RVI model a novel quantitative nuclease protection assay (qNPA) to quantify mRNA levels of 25 genes representing leukocyte differentiation markers, toll-like receptors (TLR), cytokines, chemokines, epithelial repair, microbicidal and vascular markers, by designing two multiplex arrays. Tissue sections were obtained from 36 rabbits (6 per treatment arm) after 14 daily applications of a placebo gel, saline, 4% nonoxynol-9 (N-9), and three combinations of the anti-HIV microbicides tenofovir (TFV) and UC781 in escalating concentrations (highest: 10% TFV+2.5%UC781). Results showed that increased expression levels of toll-like receptor (TLR)-4, interleukin (IL)-1β, CXCL8, epithelial membrane protein (EMP)-1 (P<0.05), and decreased levels of TLR2 (P<0.05), TLR3 and bactericidal permeability increasing protein (BPI) (P<0.001) were associated with cervicovaginal mucosal alteration (histopathology). Seven markers showed a significant linear trend predicting epithelial damage (up with CD4, IL-1β, CXCL8, CCL2, CCL21, EMP1 and down with BPI). Despite the low tissue damage RVI scores, the high-dose microbicide combination gel caused activation of HIV host cells (SLC and CD4) while N-9 caused proinflammatory gene upregulation (IL-8 and TLR4) suggesting a potential for increasing risk of HIV via different mechanisms depending on the chemical nature of the test product.
Secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine (SLC/CCL21), one of the CC chemokines, exerts potent antitumor immunity by co-localizing T cells and dendritic cells at the tumor site and is currently tested against human solid tumors. Here, we investigated whether the combination of recombinant adenovirus encoding murine CCL21 (Ad-mCCL21) with low-dose paclitaxel would improve therapeutic efficacy against murine cancer. Immunocompetent mice bearing B16-F10 melanoma or 4T1 breast carcinoma were treated with either Ad-mCCL21, paclitaxel, or both agents together. Our results showed that Ad-mCCL21 + low-dose paclitaxel more effectively reduced the growth of tumors as compared with either treatment alone and significantly prolonged survival time of the tumor-bearing animals. These antitumor effects of the combined therapy were linked to altered cytokine network at the tumor site, enhanced apoptosis of tumor cells, and decreased formation of new vessels in tumors. Importantly, the combined therapy elicited a strong therapeutic antitumor immunity, which could be partly abrogated by the depletion of CD4(+) or CD8(+) T lymphocytes. Collectively, these preclinical evaluations may provide a combined strategy for antitumor immunity and should be considered for testing in clinical trials.
Secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine (SLC/CCL21) and its receptor CCR7 have been implicated in lymph node metastasis, whereas the mechanism of which remains unclear. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays an important role in invasion and migration of cancer cells. We presumed that CCL21/CCR7 axis activates EMT process to induce cancer cell invasion and metastasis. Firstly, the expressions of CCR7 and EMT markers were examined by immunohistochemical staining in the primary breast carcinoma tissues from 60 patients who underwent radical mastectomy. Then, we investigated whether CCL21/CCR7 induces EMT process during mediating cancer cell invasion or migration in vitro. By immunohistolochemistry, high expressions of CCR7, Slug and N-cadherin were seen in 60, 65, and 76.67 % of tumors, respectively, and significantly associated with lymph node metastases as well as clinical pathological stage. Furthermore, the CCR7 expression was significantly correlated to Slug and N-cadherin. In vitro, stimulating breast cancer cell lines 1428, MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 with CCL21, the invasion and migration of tumor cells were promoted, and simultaneously, EMT phenotype of tumor cells was enhanced, including down-regulation of E-cadherin, up-regulation of Slug, Vimentin and N-cadherin at both protein and mRNA levels. Inversely, knockdown of CCR7 by shRNA suppressed tumor cell invasion, migration and EMT phenotype induced by CCL21. These results indicated that CCL21/CCR7 axis could activate EMT process during chemotaxis of breast carcinoma cells.
CC-chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7), a known lymph node homing receptor for immune cells, has been reported as a key molecule in lymph node metastasis. We hypothesized a clinicopathological correlation and functional causality between CCR7 expression and lymph node metastasis in patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).
We performed immunohistochemical analysis of 105 consecutive and 61 exclusive pathological T1 ESCC patients, followed by adhesion assay and in vivo experiment using a newly developed lymph node metastasis mouse model. The adhesive ability in response to CC-chemokine ligand 21/secondary lymphoid-tissue chemokine (CCL21/SLC) was assessed in the presence or absence of lymphatic endothelial cells and anti-CCR7 antibody. We established a heterotopic transplantation mouse model and analyzed lymph node metastasis by quantitative real-time RT-PCR.
Positive CCR7 expression in immunohistochemistory was detected in 28 (27%) of 105 consecutive patients and 17 (28%) of 61 T1 patients, which significantly correlated with lymph node metastasis (p = 0.037 and p = 0.040, respectively) and poor five-year survival (p = 0.013 and p = 0.012, respectively). Adhesion assay revealed an enhanced adhesive ability of CCR7-expressing cells in response to CCL21/SLC, in particular, in the presence of lymphatic endothelial cells (p = 0.005). In the mouse model, lymph nodes from mice transplanted with CCR7-expressing cells showed significantly higher DNA levels at 5 weeks (p = 0.019), indicating a high metastatic potential of CCR7-expressing cells.
These results demonstrated the significant clinicopathological relationship and functional causality between CCR7 expression and lymph node metastasis in ESCC patients.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is a T cell-mediated autoimmune disease characterized by the destruction of insulin-producing β cells in the pancreatic islets. The migration of T cells from blood vessels into pancreas is critical for the development of islet inflammation and β cell destruction in T1D. To define the roles of C-C chemokine receptor type 7 (CCR7) in recruitment of T cells into islets, we used laser capture microdissection to isolate tissue from inflamed islets of nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice and uninflamed islets of BALB/c and young NOD mice. RT-PCR analyses detected mRNAs for CCR7 and its chemokine ligands CCL19 (ELC; MIP-3β) and CCL21 (SLC) in captures from inflamed, but not from uninflamed, islets. Immunohistology studies revealed that high endothelial venules in inflamed islets co-express CCL21 protein and MAdCAM-1 (an adhesion molecule that recruits lymphocytes into islets). Desensitization of lymphocyte CCR7 blocked about 75 % of T cell migration from the bloodstream into inflamed islets, but had no effect on B cell migration into islets. These results indicate that CCR7 and its ligands are important in the recruitment of T cells into inflamed islets and thus in the pathogenesis of T1D.
The potential use of lymphoid chemokines to generate a dendritic cell (DC) cancer vaccine is not yet clear. We investigated the effect of lymphoid chemokines on DC function and on the production of effective cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) for application of cancer vaccine using monocyte-derived mature DCs (mDCs) prestimulated with lymphoid chemokines. mDCs exposed to a secondary lymphoid organ chemokine (SLC/CCL21) dramatically induced CTL response by increasing cytolytic activity without any significant alterations on expression of cell surface markers (e.g. CD80, CD83, CD86 and CCR7) or on the production of cytokines (e.g. IL-12p70, IL-10 and IL-23). Interestingly, mDCs prestimulated with CCL21 showed higher levels of CXCL10 (IP-10) production, but not the production of CCL22, compared with untreated mDCs. IP-10 treatment during CTL generation with DCs dramatically enhanced tumour-specific CTL response compared with untreated CTLs, and these enhanced CTL-inducing functions of CCL21-treated DCs were inhibited by anti-IP-10 treatment. Taken together, our data suggested an important role of the lymphoid-endothelium-associated chemokine, CCL21, on DCs in the induction of CTL responses.
Secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine (SLC) is a key CC chemokine for chemotaxis of immune cells and has been an attractive candidate for anti-tumor treatments. However, among the immune cells recruited by SLC to tumors, the CD25+ Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) compromise the anti-tumor effects. In this study, we proposed the combination therapy of intratumoral co-administration of SLC and anti-CD25 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). We hypothesized that the intratumoral injections of SLC and depletion of Tregs would have stronger inhibition effects on the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in mice.
C57BL/6 mice were inoculated subcutaneously with the murine HCC cell line, and mice with visible tumors were treated intratumorally with SLC, SLC plus anti-CD25 mAbs or the control antibodies. The percentages of Tregs, effector CD8+ T cells and CD4+ T cells were checked in the tumors, lymph nodes, spleen and liver at regular intervals. The levels of intratumoral IL-12, IFN-γ, IL-10 and TGF-β1 were evaluated. The final anti-tumor effects were measured by the tumor volume and weight as well as the intratumoral activity of MMP2 and MMP9. Bone-marrow-derived dendritic cells were used to explore the mechanisms of maturation induced by SLC in vitro.
Our experiments showed the combination therapy significantly decreased the frequency of Tregs, and increased CD8+ T cells and CD4+ T cells at tumor sites. These alterations were accompanied by an increased level of IL-12 and IFN-γ, and decreased level of IL-10 and TGF-β1. Unexpectedly, we observed a significantly decreased percentage of Tregs, and increased CD8+ T cells and CD4+ T cells in the lymph nodes, spleen and liver after the combination therapy. The growth and invasiveness of HCC was also maximally inhibited in the combination therapy compared with the SLC alone. Furthermore, we confirmed SLC induced the maturation of DCs via NF-κB p65 and this maturation would benefit the combination therapy.
Our data demonstrated that intratumoral co-administration of SLC and anti-CD25 mAbs was an effective treatment for HCC, which was correlated with the altered tumor microenvironment and systemically optimized percentages of Tregs, CD8+ T cells and CD4+ T cells in peripheral immune organs.
To explore the anti-tumor effect and immune mechanism mediated by a new recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) encoding secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine (SLC) mature peptide gene. AAV Helper-Free system was used for rAAV-SLC package. The anti-tumor effect of SLC was detected by bearing tumor established from Hepal-6 cells both in C57BL/6J and nude mice. Flow cytometry analysis and IHC for Tumor-infiltrating T cells and CD11c+DCs were also investigated to explore the immunological mechanism. rAAV-SLC was successfully packaged in AAV293 cells and transfected Hepal-6 tumor cells at high efficiency. The anti-tumor effect was demonstrated by less tumor weight and longer survival outcome. Coincident with the anti-tumor response, local elaboration of SLC within the tumor bed elicited a heavy infiltration of CD4+, CD8+T cells and CD11c+ dendritic cells into the tumor sites. More importantly, there was higher infiltration of Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs). Local elaboration of SLC mediated by rAAV-SLC has strong T cell mediated anti-tumor effect. The study also suggested that Tregs in the tumor microenvironment tampered the anti-tumor effect.
Lung cancer remains a challenging health problem with more than 1.1 million deaths worldwide annually. With current therapy, the long term survival for the majority of lung cancer patients remains low, thus new therapeutic strategies are needed. One such strategy would be to develop immune therapy for lung cancer. Immune approaches remain attractive because although surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy alone or in combination produce response rates in all histological types of lung cancer, relapse is frequent. Strategies that harness the immune system to react against tumors can be integrated with existing forms of therapy for optimal responses toward this devastating disease. Both antigen presenting cell (APC) and T cell activities are reduced in the lung tumor microenvironment. In this review we discuss our experience with efforts to restore host APC and T cell activities in the lung cancer microenvironment by intratumoral administration of dendritic cells (DC) expressing the CCR7 receptor ligand CCL21 (secondary lymphoid chemokine, SLC). Based on the results demonstrating that CCL21 is an effective anti cancer agent in the pre-clinical lung tumor model systems, a phase I clinical trial was initiated using intratumoral injection of CCL21 gene modified autologous DC in lung cancer. Results from the trial thus far indicate tolerability, immune enhancement and tumor shrinkage via this approach.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are potent professional antigen-presenting cells (APCs) with the ability to prime naïve T cells, and play an important role in the initiation and regulation of immune responses. In this study, we constructed a recombinant adenovirus carrying the SLC gene (Ad-SLC), and detected the biological effects of Ad-SLC-modified DCs as an adjuvant for the initiation of gastric cancer immune responses. Human DCs were transfected with Ad-SLC and the recombinant adenovirus carrying the β-galactosidase gene, Ad-LacZ, respectively. Modified DCs were pulsed with the cell lysate antigen of SGC-7901 cells (a type of gastric cancer cell line) and co-cultured with autologous T cells. The T cells were harvested and incubated with SGC-7901 cells and the cytotoxic function of the T cells was detected. Based on the data, the expression of mature DC phenotypes CD83 and CCR7 was upregulated after transfection with Ad-SLC and the chemotaxis function of DCs was augmented after transfection with Ad-SLC. Moreover, the expression of RANTES in DCs was upregulated by Ad-SLC transfection, while expression levels of IL-12p70 and IL-10 were not significantly altered. When co-cultured with autologous T cells, DCs modified with the SLC gene and pulsed with SGC-7901 cell lysates significantly promoted the proliferation of autologous T cells and induced Th1 differentiation, and displayed a strong cytotoxicity to SGC-7901 cells. In conclusion, Ad-SLC promoted DC maturation, enhancing the ability of DCs for T-cell chemotaxis and T-cell stimulation, and induced specific anti-gastric cancer cellular immunity. Recombinant Ad-SLC-modified DCs may be used as an adjuvant to induce an effective anti-gastric cancer immune response.
Chemokines are a family of small, secreted proteins that function in leukocyte and tumor cell trafficking and recruiting. CC chemokine ligand 21 (CCL21)/secondary lymphoid chemokine (SLC) belongs to the inflammatory subgroup of chemokines and is expressed by stromal cells in the T-cell-rich zones of peripheral lymph nodes, afferent lymphatic endothelial cells and high endothelial venules. CCR7 (both in human and mouse) and CXCR3 (in mouse) are expressed by the most potent antigen-presenting cells (dendritic cells), naïve/central memory, and effector T cells, respectively. Inflammation in the skin can induce expression of CCL21 which is subsequently drained into loco-regional lymph nodes responsible for co-localization of antigen-presenting cells and T lymphocytes, a prerequisite for induction of adaptive immune responses. Here, skin functions as a remote control for induction of targeted cell migration in vivo. This chapter describes Gene Gun administration of plasmid DNA expressing functionally active CCL21 (as an example of a chemokine) into the skin in mice and subsequent functional evaluation of the transgene expression in vivo.
L-selectin functions as an important adhesion molecule that mediates tethering and rolling of lymphocytes by binding to high endothelial venule (HEV)-expressed ligands during recirculation. Subsequent lymphocyte arrest and transmigration require activation through binding of HEV-decorated homeostatic chemokines such as secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine (SLC; CCL21) to its counterreceptor, CCR7. Importantly, L-selectin also functions as a signaling molecule. In this study, signaling induced by ligation of L-selectin using mAb or endothelial cell-expressed ligand significantly enhanced the chemotaxis of murine T cells and B cells to SLC but not to other homeostatic chemokines. Consistent with the expression levels of L-selectin in different lymphocyte subsets, L-selectin-mediated enhancement of chemotaxis to SLC was observed for all naive lymphocytes and effector/memory CD8(+) T cells, whereas only a subpopulation of effector/memory CD4(+) T cells responded. During in vivo mesenteric lymph node migration assays, the absence of L-selectin on lymphocytes significantly attenuated both their ability to migrate out of the HEV and their chemotaxis away from the vessel wall. Notably, ligation of L-selectin and/or CCR7 did not result in increased CCR7 expression levels, internalization, or re-expression. Pharmacologic inhibitor studies showed that L-selectin-mediated enhanced chemotaxis to SLC required intact intracellular kinase function. Furthermore, treatment of lymphocytes with the spleen tyrosine kinase family inhibitor piceatannol reduced their ability to migrate across the HEV in peripheral lymph nodes. Therefore, these results suggest that "cross-talk" in the signaling pathways initiated by L-selectin and CCR7 provides a novel mechanism for functional synergy between these two molecules during lymphocyte migration.
Secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine (SLC), which is expressed in T cell zones of secondary lymphoid organs, including the spleen and lymph nodes, strongly recruits both T lymphocytes and mature dendritic cells. As appropriate interaction of tumor-specific T cells and mature dendritic cells, equipped with tumor antigens, is a prerequisite for effective T cell immunity against established tumors, we mobilized lymphocytes and dendritic cells to tumor sites by intratumoral injection of secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine-Fc (SLC-Fc) fusion protein using the B16F10 murine melanoma model. Activation of dendritic cells, another prerequisite for the effective activation of naïve tumor-specific T cells, was achieved by the addition of immunostimulatory cytosine-phosphorothioate-guanine oligodeoxynucleotide (CpG-ODN) into the tumor site. Intratumoral administration of SLC-Fc or CpG-ODN revealed antitumor effects against B16F10 murine melanoma grown in the subcutaneous space. Co-treatment of SLC-Fc and CpG-ODN displayed synergistic effects in reducing the tumor size. The synergistic antitumor effect in co-treatment group was correlated with the synergistic/additive increase in the infiltration of CD4(+) T cells and CD11c(+) dendritic cells in the tumor mass compared to the single treatment groups. These results suggest that the combined use of chemokines and adjuvant molecules may be a possible strategy in clinical tumor immunotherapy.
Secondary lymphoid-tissue chemokine (SLC/CCL21) is a CC chemokine that is constitutively expressed in various lymphoid tissues and binds to chemokine receptor CCR7 on mature dendritic cells (DCs) and distinct T-and B-cell sub-populations. In vivo, CCL21 regulates the encounters between DC and T cells and thus is a key regulator of adaptive immune responses. We asked whether CCL21 is able to augment immunogenicity of a DNA-based vaccine against Her2/neu in a Balb/c mouse model with syngeneic Her2/neu+ tumor cells (D2F2/E2). Mice were vaccinated intramuscularly with plasmid DNA (pDNA) on day 1 and boosted on day 15; tumor challenge was performed subcutaneously on day 25. Coexpression of CCL21 and Her-2/neu resulted in induction of a TH1-polarized immune response and substantial improvement of the protective effect of the DNA vaccine. Coexpression of tumor antigen pDNA(Her2/neu) with both pDNA(GM-CSF) and pDNA(CCL21) as adjuvants led to further improvement of protection by the vaccine (70% tumor-free mice on day 35 vs 40% with either adjuvant alone vs 5-10% with tumor antigen alone). Our results show that CCL21 is a potent adjuvant for DNA vaccination, particularly in combination with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). Clinical use of a pDNA(Her2/neu/CCL21/GM-CSF) vaccine might be particularly promising in minimal residual Her2/neu+ breast cancer.
Dendritic cell (DC)-based cancer immunotherapy requires an immunogenic tumor associated antigen (TAA) and an effective strategy for its presentation to lymphocytes. Here, we explored whether transduction of DCs with lentiviruses (LVs) expressing a fusion protein of secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine (SLC) and mucin 1 (MUC1) could stimulate antigen-specific cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) to human cancer cells in vitro.
HLA-A2+ peripheral blood monocyte-derived DCs were transduced with recombinant lentiviruses LV at different multiplicities of infection (MOI), and MUC1, SLC or SLC-MUC1 mRNA and protein were detected by RT-PCR and Western blotting, respectively. Transduction efficiencies and phenotypes of DCs were evaluated by flow cytometry. Induction of T lymphocyte proliferation by DCs was examined with a Cell Count Kit-8 (CCK-8). CTL activities against tumor cells were analyzed by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) cytotoxicity and enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assays.
Stable expression of MUC1, SLC and SLC-MUC1 was obtained in DCs transduced with recombinant LVs, and the transduction efficiencies were dose-dependent. Transduction with LVs did not appreciably change the DC phenotype. CTL induced by LV MUC1 DCs potently and specifically lysed the HLA-A2+, MUC1+colon cancer cell line HCT-116. Moreover, this cytolytic activity against HCT-116 was enhanced with CTL stimulated by LV SLC-MUC1 DCs.
DCs transduced with MUC1 could induce effective cytolytic activity against tumor cells in an antigen-specific and HLA-restricted fashion in vitro, and SLC promoted MUC1-specific anti-tumor activity. The transduction of DCs with LV SLC- MUC1 may be a promising strategy in DC-based cancer immunotherapy.
Natural killer (NK) cells represent a major subpopulation of lymphocytes. These cells have effector functions as they recognize and kill transformed cells as well as microbially infected cells. In addition, alloreactive NK cells have been successfully used to treat patients with acute myeloid leukemia and other hematological malignancies. NK cells are also endowed with immunoregulatory functions since they secrete cytokines such as IFN-γ, which favor the development of T helper 1 (Th1) cells, and chemokines such as CCL3/MIP-1α and CCL4/MIP-1β, which recruit various inflammatory cells into sites of inflammation. In human blood, NK cells are divided into CD56(bright) CD16(dim) and CD56(dim) CD16(bright) subsets. These subsets have different phenotypic expression and may have different functions; the former subset is more immunoregulatory and the latter is more cytolytic. The CD56(bright)CD16(dim) NK cells home into tissues such as the peripheral lymph nodes (LNs) under physiological conditions because they express the LN homing receptor CCR7 and they respond to CCL19/MIP-3β and CCL21/SLC chemokines. They also distribute into adenoid tissues or decidual uterus following the CXCR3/CXCL10 or CXCR4/CXCL12 axis. On the other hand, both NK cell subsets migrate into inflammatory sites, with more CD56(dim)CD16(bright) NK cells distributing into inflamed liver and lungs. CCR5/CCL5 axis plays an important role in the accumulation of NK cells in virally infected sites as well as during parasitic infections. CD56(bright)CD16(dim) cells also migrate into autoimmune sites such as inflamed synovial fluids in patients having rheumatoid arthritis facilitated by the CCR5/CCL3/CCL4/CCL5 axis, whereas they distribute into inflamed brains aided by the CX₃CR1/CX₃CL1 axis. On the other hand, CD56(dim)CD16(bright) NK cells accumulate in the liver of patients with primary biliary disease aided by the CXCR1/CXCL8 axis. However, the types of chemokines that contribute to their accumulation in target organs during graft vs. host (GvH) disease are not known. Further, chemokines activate NK cells to become highly cytolytic cells known as CC chemokine-activated killer (CHAK) cells that kill tumor cells. In summary, chemokines whether secreted in an autocrine or paracrine fashion regulate various biological functions of NK cells. Depending on the tissue and the chemokine secreted, NK cells may ameliorate the disease such as their roles in combating tumors or virally infected cells, and their therapeutic potentials in treating leukemias and other hematological malignancies, as well as reducing the incidence of GvH disease. In contrast, they may exacerbate the disease by damaging the affected tissues through direct cytotoxicity or by the release of multiple inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Examples are their deleterious roles in autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and primary biliary cirrhosis.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether dendritic cells (DCs) transfected with human secondary lymphoid-tissue chemokine (hSLC) and human interleukin-2 (hIL-2) genes are capable of improving DC's proliferation and to produce a marked antitumor effect in vitro combined with T-lymphocyte (TC).
SLC gene primer was designed based on the corresponding gene sequence in GenBank. The Kpn I site was introduced into the upstream of the primer and Xho I site into the downstream. The SLC gene was amplified with the template of pET32a(+)-SLC by polymerase chain reaction. SLC was cloned into pBudCE4.1/IL-2 (TRAIL was cut from pBudCE4.1/TRAIL- IL-2 before) to construct recombinant plasmid pBudCE4.1/SLC-IL-2(PSI). DCs were transfected with pBudCE4.1/SLC-IL-2 by gene electric transfection. Protein expression was determined with Western blot and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Cytotoxicity of TC and DC against the human bladder tumor cell were examined by chromium release assay. Flow cytometric analyses were performed to determine the apoptosis of tumor cells and the percentage of Treg.
A high level of expression of SLC and IL-2 was observed in DCs transfected with SLC and IL-2 genes. The mean production of IL-2 was 19.8 +/- 2.5, 511.10 +/- 52.36, and 541.3 +/- 62.04 ng/10(6) cells/24 hours in the DC/vector, DC/IL-2, and DC/SLC-IL-2, respectively. The mean SLC production was 29.8 +/- 4.43, 506.10 +/- 42.36, and 567.34 +/- 52.05 ngs/10(6)cells/24 hours in the DC/ vector, DC/SLC, and DC/SLC-IL-2, respectively. Cytotoxicity to bladder cancer cells was increased. The mean cytotoxicity (the effector/target ratio, 40:1) of TC-DC/parental, TC-DC/IL-2, TC-DC/SLC, and TC-DC/SLC-IL-2(TDSI) to the human bladder cancer cells was 32.1 +/- 5.5%, 63.5 +/- 6.6%, 78.1 +/- 9.63%, respectively. The apoptotsis rate of bladder cancer cells treated with TDSI was 18.6% by flow cytometry. Treg cells' percentage was very small in the DC medium.
SLC and IL-2 were produced by autocrine in DCs transfected with SLC and IL-2 genes. DC/SLC-IL-2 can promote DC proliferation, while TC-DC/SLC-IL-2 and TC-DC/SLC could strongly enhance significant cytotoxicity against bladder cancer cell that was induced by the coculture of DCs (transfected with SLC and IL-2) and TC.
Based on leads from our recent animal studies, we are embarking on a series of new clinical trials to evaluate potential improvements in dendritic cell (DC)-based vaccines for melanoma and pancreatic cancer. The first new strategy involves the use of a powerful chemokine (denoted secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine; SLC/CCL-21), which can both create functioning lymph node-like structures at sites of vaccination with tumor-loaded DCs and dramatically enhance vaccine efficacy in animal tumor models. Using this strategy, we are embarking on a clinical trial in melanoma patients with the intent to create functioning, ectopic, lymph node-like structures to enhance host antitumor immunity. The second strategy, in the setting of pancreatic cancer, involves a gene therapy and immunotherapy combination of a locally administered tumor necrosis factor-alpha gene vector followed by radiation (to induce tumor apoptosis/necrosis) and intratumorally administered monocyte-derived DCs (to uptake and present antigens from dying tumor cells to elicit potent, systemic, antitumor immunity).
To explore the impact of secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine (SLC) on lymphocyte migration and the significance thereof in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis (UC).
Sixty SD rats were randomly divided into 3 equal groups: model group undergoing dripping of 40% acetone solution of dinitro-chlorobenzene (DNCB) on the back for 2 weeks and then enema of 6% DNCB acetone solution so as to establish models of UC, and then intravenous injection of normal saline (NS) for 5 days; SLC antibody intervention group undergoing intravenous injection of SLC antibody 15 microg x ml(-1) x kg(-1) immediately after the establishing of model; and control group undergoing enema of NS nly and then intravenous injection of NS for 5 days. Six days after the establishing of model venous blood samples were collected from the portal veins of the 3 groups. Lymphocytes were isolated and cultured. RT-PCR was used to detect the mRNA expression of the SLC receptor CCR7. Boyden chamber system was used to examine the migration ability of the lymphocytes exposed to SLC of 20, 40, 60, 80, and 100 ng/ml respectively. ELISA was used to detect the expression of interleukin (IL)-10 and interferon (IFN)-gamma in the supernatants of the lymphocytes of different groups.
RT-PCR showed that the CCR7 mRNA expression level of the model group was (0.792 +/- 0.108), significantly higher than that of the intervention group (0.386 +/- 0.115, P = 0.0429), and the CCR7 mRNA expression levels of these 2 groups were both significantly higher than that of the control group (0.106 +/- 0.029, both P < 0.01). SLC dose-dependently promoted the migration ability of the lymphocytes, but there existed a saturation phenomenon. Exposed to 80 ng/ml SLC the migration level of the lymphocytes of the model group peaked to (85.9 +/- 16.0), 3.7 times as high as that of the control group (20.5 +/- 1.8, P < 0.01), and the migration level of the lymphocytes of the intervention group was 38.2 +/- 6.3, significantly higher than that of the control group too (P < 0.05). SLC enhanced the expression of IFN-gamma of the lymphocytes of the model group, while reduced the IL-10 level, and both effects peaked at the concentration of 80 ng/ml (P = 0.042, P = 0.036).
SLC promotes the lymphocyte migration and boosts the differentiation of lymphocytes, thus participating in the pathogenesis of UC.
To investigate the effect of secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine (SLC) on experimental colon lesions in rats with ulcerative colitis.
Sixty Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into control group, model group and SLC intervention group. Colonic mucosal lesions of different groups were observed with HE staining for inflammation and lymphocyte homing situation. Cytokine IL-2 and IL-6 levels were measured by ABC-ELISA. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR was used to examine the colonic SLC expression.
Intestinal inflammation score and colonic cytokine levels were significantly different among three groups (P<0.05, P<0.01). Abnormal lymphocyte homing phenomenon under colonic mucosa was found in the model group and the intervention group. SLC mRNA expression of the model and intervention groups increased significantly compared with the control group (0.846+/-0.047, 0.768+/-0.135 vs 0.312+/-0.112, P<0.01). However, there was no significant difference between model group and intervention group.
SLC may play an important role in experimental colonic mucosal inflammation in rats with ulcerative colitis. Blockade of SLC may be one of effective ways in reducing colonic mucosal inflammation.
The stem-cell marker CD93 (AA4.1/C1qRp) has been described as a potential complement C1q-receptor. Its exact molecular function, however, remains unknown. By using global expression profiling we showed that CD93-mRNA is highly induced after transient focal cerebral ischemia. CD93 protein is upregulated in endothelial cells, but also in selected macrophages and microglia. To elucidate the potential functional role of CD93 in postischemic brain damage, we used mice with a targeted deletion of the CD93 gene. After 30 min of occlusion of the middle cerebral artery and 3 d of reperfusion these mice displayed increased leukocyte infiltration into the brain, increased edema, and significantly larger infarct volumes (60.8 +/- 52.2 versus 23.9 +/- 16.6 mm(3)) when compared with wild-type (WT) mice. When the MCA was occluded for 60 min, after 2 d of reperfusion the CD93 knockout mice still showed more leukocytes in the brain, but the infarct volumes were not different from those seen in WT animals. To further explore CD93-dependent signaling pathways, we determined global transcription profiles and compared CD93-deficient and WT mice at various time points after induction of focal cerebral ischemia. We found a highly significant upregulation of the chemokine CCL21/Exodus-2 in untreated and treated CD93-deficient mice at all time points. Induction of CCL21 mRNA and protein was confirmed by PCR and immunohistochemistry. CCL21, which was formerly shown to be released by damaged neurons and to activate microglia, contributes to neurodegeneration. Thus, we speculate that CD93-neuroprotection is mediated via suppression of the neuroinflammatory response through downregulation of CCL21.
The approximately 50 known chemokines are classified in distinct subfamilies: CXC, CC, CX3C, and C. Although the signaling of chemokines often is promiscuous, signaling events between members of these distinct chemokine classes are hardly observed. The only known exception so far is the murine CC chemokine ligand (CCL)21 (secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine, Exodus-2, 6Ckine), which binds and activates the murine CXC chemokine receptor CXCR3. However, this exception has not been found in humans. In this study, we provide evidence that human CCL21 is a functional ligand for endogenously expressed CXCR3 in human adult microglia. In absence of CCR7 expression, CCL21 induced chemotaxis of human microglia with efficiency similar to the CXCR3 ligands CXC chemokine ligand 9 (monokine induced by IFN-gamma) and CXC chemokine ligand 10 (IFN-gamma-inducible protein-10). Because human CCL21 did not show any effects in CXCR3-transfected HEK293 cells, it is indicated that CXCR3 signaling depends on the cellular background in which the CXCR3 is expressed.
Secondary lymphoid organ chemokines have been implicated in chronic inflammation. Their expression in the central nervous system (CNS) has not been studied. Here, levels of secondary lymphoid organ chemokines CCL19 (Exodus-3, MIP-3beta), CCL21 (Exodus-2, 6Ckine, SLC) and CXCL12 (SDF-1alpha) were analysed by ELISA in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma from patients with multiple sclerosis (MS); acute optic neuritis (ON) with oligoclonal IgG in the CSF (i.e., first bout of MS); acute ON without oligoclonal IgG (non-MS-type ON); other inflammatory neurological diseases (OIND); and non-inflammatory neurological diseases (NIND). NIND CSF contained CCL19 and CXCL12, while CCL21 was not detected. Intrathecal production of CCL19 and CCL21 was elevated in MS, MS-type ON, and OIND, but not in non-MS-type ON. In MS, CSF levels of CCL19 weakly correlated with CSF cell counts. Intrathecal production of CXCL12 was elevated only in OIND. The role of elevated CCL19 and CCL21 in MS could be retention of mature dendritic cells (DC) in the CNS, recruitment of nai;ve T cells and activated B cells, as well as de novo formation of secondary lymphoid structures in MS plaques.
The signals that mediate T-cell infiltration during T-cell autoimmune diseases are poorly understood. The chemokine CCL21 (originally isolated by us and others as Exodus-2/6Ckine/SLC/TCA4) is highly potent and highly specific for stimulating T-cell migration. However, it is thought to be expressed only in secondary lymphoid organs, directing naive T cells to areas of antigen presentation. It is not thought to play a role in T-cell effector function during a normal immune response. In this study we tested the expression of T-cell chemokines and their receptors during T-cell autoimmune infiltrative skin diseases. By using immunohistology it was found that the expression of CCL21 but not CCL19 or 20 was highly induced in endothelial cells of T-cell autoimmune diseases. The receptor for CCL21, CCR7, was also found to be highly expressed on the infiltrating T cells, most of which expressed the memory CD45Ro phenotype. These data imply that the usual loss of CCL21 responsiveness in the normal development of memory T-cell effector function does not hold for autoimmune skin diseases.
Chemokines are a family of small proteins that regulate leukocyte infiltration into inflamed tissue and play key roles in the pathogenesis of many diseases. Some chemokines can also reversibly inhibit the proliferation of hematopoietic progenitors. We have previously found that the chemokine CCL21 (Exodus-2/SLC/6Ckine/TCA4) is a potent inhibitor of the proliferation of normal hematopoietic progenitors. In this study we sought to determine whether this inhibition of proliferation could be therapeutically exploited by protecting normal marrow progenitors from the cytotoxicity of the S phase-active chemotherapeutic agent Ara-C.
Untreated and CCL21-pretreated mice were given doses of Ara-C that are toxic to marrow myeloid progenitors. The recovery of these myeloid progenitors was analyzed by colony formation assays.
It was found that pretreatment with small doses of CCL21 prevented the death of normal murine marrow progenitors from the toxic effects of Ara-C.
The chemokine CCL21 may be able to prevent Ara-C myelosuppression during acute leukemia induction chemotherapy, and thereby decrease morbidity and mortality of such therapy, and shorten hospital stays.
The chemokine CCL21, also known as Exodus-2/6-Ckine/secondary lymphoid-tissue chemokine/T cell activator protein-4, is the most potent stimulator of T cell migration and adhesion yet described. Endothelial heparin-like glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) are thought to present chemokines at sites of inflammation, maintaining a local concentration gradient to which leukocytes can respond. In contrast, this study found that GAGs markedly inhibit the ability of CCL21 to stimulate T cell adhesion and chemotaxis. Enzymes, such as heparinase, that split GAGs into component-sulfated saccharides abrogate this inhibition, suggesting a mechanism for local tissue regulation of CCL21 function. Low-molecular-weight heparins also strongly inhibit CCL21 adhesion and chemotaxis. Therefore, low-molecular-weight heparins may be effective therapeutic agents in decreasing the pathology of T cell-infiltrative autoimmune diseases by targeting the CCL21 regulation of T cell infiltration.
A defined and balanced immunomodulatory response is crucial for the protection of mucosal surfaces being in contact with pathogenic microorganisms. This study examined the local host response mechanisms of epithelial cells in experimental Candida albicans, C. tropicalis, and C. glabrata infections by measuring the expression of cytokines at the mRNA and protein level. During the course of infection with active but not with heat-killed C. albicans stimulation of the gene expression levels for interleukin-1alpha, interleukin-1beta, tumor necrosis factor, Exodus-2, P-selectin ligand, granulocyte-monocyte colony-stimulating factor, and interleukin-8 was observed by standard and quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. This cytokine pattern may favor a chemotactic and a T helper 1 response. Initial moderate or weak upregulation of these cytokine genes by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction was also observed in epithelial infection with the less virulent species C. tropicalis and C. glabrata. Heat-killed C. albicans failed to induce an epithelial immune response. At the protein level, expression of interleukin-8 protein was strongly enhanced during the course of C. albicans infection, whereas lower levels were seen with C. tropicalis and C. glabrata. The different expression patterns of cytokines were associated with differences in virulence of the Candida strains. This study's data, therefore, show a correlation between the virulence potential of pathogenic fungi, possibly mediated by specific virulence factors (such as proteinases), and the secretion of epithelial cytokines and chemokines, which may initiate in vivo a protective T helper 1 immunologic response and contribute to the recruitment of activated leukocytes and lymphocytes to the site of mucosal infection.
Chemokines are a large family of cytokines that direct normal leukocyte migration. They also have been implicated in leukocyte development and in the pathogenesis of many diseases. The CC chemokine CCL21, also known as Exodus-2, SLC, 6Ckine, and TCA4 induces both the adhesion and migration of human T cells. CCL21 is hypothesized to regulate the trafficking of T cells through secondary lymphoid tissues. To test this hypothesis, a transgenic mouse model was generated that placed the expression of mouse CCL21 (mCCL21) under the control of the T cell-specific lck promoter to abrogate the concentration gradient to which T cells normally respond. Overexpression of mCCL21 in T cells resulted in defects in CCL21- and CCL19-induced T-cell chemotaxis, node T-cell subpopulations, and lymph node architecture. The regulation of T-cell trafficking in secondary lymphoid tissues by CCL21 is therefore a tightly regulated system that can be altered by changes in the level of environmental CCL21 protein.
Secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine (SLC, also referred to as Exodus 2 or 6Ckine) is a recently identified high endothelial-derived CC chemokine. The ability of SLC to chemoattract both Th1 lymphocytes and dendritic cells formed the rationale to evaluate this chemokine in cancer immunotherapy. Intratumoral injection of recombinant SLC evidenced potent antitumor responses and led to complete tumor eradication in 40% of treated mice. SLC-mediated antitumor responses were lymphocyte dependent as evidenced by the fact that this therapy did not alter tumor growth in SCID mice. Studies performed in CD4 and CD8 knockout mice also revealed a requirement for both CD4 and CD8 lymphocyte subsets for SLC-mediated tumor regression. In immunocompetent mice, intratumoral SLC injection led to a significant increase in CD4 and CD8 T lymphocytes and dendritic cells, infiltrating both the tumor and the draining lymph nodes. These cell infiltrates were accompanied by the enhanced elaboration of Th1 cytokines and chemokines monokine induced by IFN-gamma and IFN-gamma-inducible protein 10 but a concomitant decrease in immunosuppressive cytokines at the tumor site. In response to irradiated autologous tumor, splenic and lymph node-derived cells from SLC-treated tumor-bearing mice secreted significantly more IFN-gamma, GM-CSF, and IL-12 and reduced levels of IL-10 than did diluent-treated tumor-bearing mice. After stimulation with irradiated autologous tumor, lymph node-derived lymphocytes from SLC-treated tumor-bearing mice demonstrated enhanced cytolytic capacity, suggesting the generation of systemic immune responses. These findings provide a strong rationale for further evaluation of SLC in tumor immunity and its use in cancer immunotherapy.
Natural killer (NK) cells play an important role in innate and adaptive immune responses to obligate intracellular pathogens. Nevertheless, the regulation of NK cell trafficking and migration to inflammatory sites is poorly understood. Exodus-1/MIP-3alpha/LARC, Exodus-2/6Ckine/SLC, and Exodus-3/MIP-3beta/ELC/CKbeta-11 are CC chemokines that share a unique aspartate-cysteine-cysteine-leucine motif near their amino terminus and preferentially stimulate the migration of T lymphocytes. The effects of Exodus chemokines on human NK cells were examined. Exodus-1, -2, and -3 did not induce detectable chemotaxis of resting peripheral blood NK cells. In contrast, Exodus-2 and -3 stimulated migration of polyclonal activated peripheral blood NK cells in a dose-dependent fashion. Exodus-2 and -3 also induced dose-dependent chemotaxis of NKL, an IL-2-dependent human NK cell line. Results of modified checkerboard assays indicate that migration of NKL cells in response to Exodus-2 and -3 represents true chemotaxis and not simply chemokinesis. Exodus-1, -2, and -3 did not induce NK cell proliferation in the absence of other stimuli. Nevertheless, Exodus-2 and -3 significantly augmented IL-2-induced proliferation of normal human CD56(dim) NK cells. In contrast, Exodus-1, -2, and -3 did not affect the cytolytic activity of resting or activated peripheral blood NK cells. Expression of message for CCR7, a shared receptor for Exodus-2 and -3, was detected in activated polyclonal NK cells and NKL cells but not resting NK cells. Taken together, these results indicate that Exodus-2 and -3 can participate in the recruitment and proliferation of activated NK cells. Exodus-2 and -3 may regulate interactions between T cells and NK cells that are crucial for the generation of optimal immune responses.
Chemokines are a family of related proteins that regulate leukocyte infiltration into inflamed tissue and play important roles in disease processes. Among the biologic activities of chemokines is inhibition of proliferation of normal hematopoietic progenitors. However, chemokines that inhibit normal progenitors rarely inhibit proliferation of hematopoietic progenitors from patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). We and others recently cloned a subfamily of CC chemokines that share similar amino-terminal peptide sequences and a remarkable ability to chemoattract T cells. These chemokines, Exodus-1/LARC/MIP-3alpha, Exodus-2/SLC/6Ckine/TCA4, and Exodus-3/CKbeta11/MIP-3beta, were found to inhibit proliferation of normal human marrow progenitors. The study described here found that these chemokines also inhibited the proliferation of progenitors in every sample of marrow from patients with CML that was tested. This demonstration of consistent inhibition of CML progenitor proliferation makes the 3 Exodus chemokines unique among chemokines. (Blood. 2000;95:1506-1508)
Chemokines have been hypothesized to contribute to the selectivity of lymphocyte trafficking not only as chemoattractants, but also by triggering integrin-dependent sticking (arrest) of circulating lymphocytes at venular sites of extravasation. We show that T cells roll on most Peyer's patch high endothelial venules (PP-HEVs), but preferentially arrest in segments displaying high levels of luminal secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine (SLC) (6Ckine, Exodus-2, thymus-derived chemotactic agent 4 [TCA-4]). This arrest is selectively inhibited by functional deletion (desensitization) of CC chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7), the receptor for SLC and for macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-3beta (EBV-induced molecule 1 ligand chemokine [ELC]), and does not occur in mutant DDD/1 mice that are deficient in these CCR7 ligands. In contrast, pertussis toxin-sensitive B cell sticking does not require SLC or MIP-3beta signaling, and occurs efficiently in SLC(low/-) HEV segments in wild-type mice, and in the SLC-negative HEVs of DDD/1 mice. Remarkably, sites of T and B cell firm adhesion are segregated in PPs, with HEVs supporting B cell accumulation concentrated in or near follicles, the target domain of most B cells entering PPs, whereas T cells preferentially accumulate in interfollicular HEVs. Our findings reveal a fundamental difference in signaling requirements for PP-HEV recognition by T and B cells, and describe an unexpected level of specialization of HEVs that may allow differential, segmental control of lymphocyte subset recruitment into functionally distinct lymphoid microenvironments in vivo.
T cell homing to peripheral lymph nodes (PLNs) is defined by a multistep sequence of interactions between lymphocytes and endothelial cells in high endothelial venules (HEVs). After initial tethering and rolling via L-selectin, firm adhesion of T cells requires rapid upregulation of lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 (LFA-1) adhesiveness by a previously unknown pathway that activates a Galpha(i)-linked receptor. Here, we used intravital microscopy of murine PLNs to study the role of thymus-derived chemotactic agent (TCA)-4 (secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine, 6Ckine, Exodus-2) in homing of adoptively transferred T cells from T-GFP mice, a transgenic strain that expresses green fluorescent protein (GFP) selectively in naive T lymphocytes (T(GFP) cells). TCA-4 was constitutively presented on the luminal surface of HEVs, where it was required for LFA-1 activation on rolling T(GFP) cells. Desensitization of the TCA-4 receptor, CC chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7), blocked T(GFP) cell adherence in wild-type HEVs, whereas desensitization to stromal cell-derived factor (SDF)-1alpha (the ligand for CXC chemokine receptor 4 [CXCR4]) did not affect T(GFP) cell behavior. TCA-4 protein was not detected on the luminal surface of PLN HEVs in plt/plt mice, which have a congenital defect in T cell homing to PLNs. Accordingly, T(GFP) cells rolled but did not arrest in plt/plt HEVs. When TCA-4 was injected intracutaneously into plt/plt mice, the chemokine entered afferent lymph vessels and accumulated in draining PLNs. 2 h after intracutaneous injection, luminal presentation of TCA-4 was detectable in a subset of HEVs, and LFA-1-mediated T(GFP) cell adhesion was restored in these vessels. We conclude that TCA-4 is both required and sufficient for LFA-1 activation on rolling T cells in PLN HEVs. This study also highlights a hitherto undocumented role for chemokines contained in afferent lymph, which may modulate leukocyte recruitment in draining PLNs.
The chemokine receptor CCR-7 is expressed in T, NK, and dendritic cells in a time-ordered and stimulus-dependent manner. Thorough analyses of the pharmacological profiles of the recombinant ligands for CCR-7, MIP-3beta/ELC/CK-beta 11, and SLC/Exodus-2/TCA4/6C-kine, using CCR-7-expressing HEK-293E transfectants determine that ligands both bind with a K(d) in the 100 pM range-10- to 100-fold greater affinities than published K(d) values. High-affinity binding of each ligand is associated with rapid mobilization of intracellular calcium and cell migration as predicted for chemokine GPCRs, and in keeping with more recent evidence, robust activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK).
We and other workers have recently isolated three novel CC chemokines termed Exodus-1/LARC/Mip-3alpha, Exodus-2/6Ckine/SLC/TCA4, and Exodus-3/Mip-3beta/CKbeta11/ELC. These chemokines share an amino terminal Asp-Cys-Cys-Leu sequence, unique among all chemokines. They also selectively regulate migration of adult T cells. Indeed, there is evidence that Exodus-2 and -3 are critical for adult T-cell adhesion to high endothelial venules in lymph nodes, a rate-limiting step for T-cell trafficking through nodal tissue. Less is known of the factors controlling migration of naïve human fetal T cells. We tested whether these chemokines could regulate chemotaxis in cord blood T-cell populations, and compared that efficacy with normal peripheral blood adult T cells. The findings indicated that naive CD45RA+ cord blood T-cell migration is stimulated by Exodus-2 and -3, and CD4+ cord blood T cells are attracted preferentially by Exodus-2 or -3 as compared with CD8+. Exodus-2 and -3 are likely to be critical in regulating the flux of naive CD4 + fetal T-cell population of secondary lymphoid tissue.
The CC chemokine known as 6Ckine (SLC, Exodus-2, or TCA4) has been identified as a ligand for CCR7. Mouse 6Ckine has also been shown to signal through mouse CXCR3 and share some of the activities of IFN-gamma inducible protein 10 and monokine induced by IFN-gamma. Nonetheless, human 6Ckine has not been shown to bind CXCR3 receptor or have angiostatic activity. In this study, we report that human 6Ckine does not induce a calcium flux in either human CXCR3 or mouse CXCR3 transfected cells, although it is an equally potent agonist as mouse 6Ckine and human macrophage inflammatory protein-3beta in human CCR7 transfected cells. Mouse 6Ckine (but not human 6Ckine) is capable of competing with radiolabeled IFN-gamma inducible protein 10 for human CXCR3. In addition, radiolabeled human 6Ckine does not bind to either human CXCR3 or mouse CXCR3. Together these data suggest that human CC chemokine 6Ckine is not a ligand for the human or mouse CXC chemokine receptor CXCR3.
The attachment of leukocytes to the endothelium is a multistep process that depends upon a very rapid increase in the adhesive activity of leukocyte integrins. A pertussis toxin-sensitive pathway stimulates integrin-dependent lymphocyte adhesion to Peyer's patch high endothelial venules in vivo, but the factors responsible for activating this pathway have not been identified previously. We now report that secondary lymphoid-tissue chemokine (SLC) (also known as 6Ckine, Exodus-2, and thymus-derived chemotactic agent 4), a recently described CC chemokine that is expressed in Peyer's patches and lymph nodes, rapidly activates integrin-mediated lymphocyte adhesion. Immobilized SLC increased the adhesion of HUT-78 T cells and human PBLs to mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule-1, a protein that is expressed on Peyer's patch and mesenteric lymph node high endothelial venules. This effect of SLC was seen in both static and flow chamber adhesion assays, was mediated by integrin alpha 4 beta 7, and was inhibited by pertussis toxin. The other CC chemokines tested did not increase adhesion to mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule-1. SLC had a greater effect on naive CD4+ T cells than on memory CD4+ T cells; CD8+ T cells, B cells, and NK cells were also responsive to SLC. SLC is likely to play an important role in regulating the recruitment of lymphocytes to Peyer's patches and lymph nodes.
Secondary lymphoid-tissue chemokine, SLC, also known as exodus-2 and 6Ckine, is a novel CC chemokine with selectivity for T lymphocytes and preferential expression in lymphoid tissues. We have studied its production, receptor usage and biological activities. High levels of SLC mRNA were detected in lymph nodes, the gastrointestinal tract and several gland tissues, but no expression was found by Northern blot analysis in freshly isolated or stimulated blood monocytes and lymphocytes, or neutrophils and eosinophils. In situ hybridization revealed constitutive expression of SLC in the T cell areas and the marginal zone of follicles in lymph nodes and the mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue, but not in B cell areas or sinuses. Comparison with immunocytochemical staining showed similarity between the in situ expression of SLC and the distribution of interdigitating dendritic cells but not with sinus-lining dendritic cells, macrophages or T lymphocytes. SLC induced chemotaxis of T lymphocytes and its activity increased considerably when the cells were conditioned with IL-2 or phytohemagglutinin (PHA). Under optimal conditions SLC had unusually high efficacy and induced the migration of up to 50 % of input T lymphocytes. SLC also induced Ca2+ mobilization in these cells. Similar responses were obtained with EBI1 ligand chemokine (ELC), and sequential stimulation with both chemokines led to cross-desensitization, suggesting that SLC acts via the ELC receptor, CCR7. This was confirmed using murine pre-B cells stably transfected with CCR7 which bound SLC with high affinity and showed chemotaxis and Ca2+ mobilization in response to both SLC and ELC. In T lymphocytes PHA and IL-2, which enhanced chemotactic responsiveness, also markedly enhanced CCR7 expression. In contrast to all known chemokine receptors, up-regulation of CCR7 by IL-2 was transient. A maximum was reached in 2-3 days and expression returned to initial levels within 8-10 days. The present study shows that SLC is constitutively produced within the T cell areas of secondary lymphoid organs and attracts T lymphocytes via CCR7.
The beta chemokine known as 6-C-kine, secondary lymphoid-tissue chemokine (SLC), TCA4, or Exodus-2 (herein referred to as 6CK/SLC) can trigger rapid integrin-dependent arrest of lymphocytes rolling under physiological shear and is highly expressed by high endothelial venules, specialized vessels involved in lymphocyte homing from the blood into lymph nodes and Peyer's patches. We show that 6CK/SLC is an agonist for the lymphocyte chemoattractant receptor, CCR7 (EBI-1, BLR-2), previously described as a receptor for the related beta chemokine MIP-3beta (ELC or Exodus-3). Moreover, 6CK/SLC and MIP-3beta attract the same major populations of circulating lymphocytes, including naive and memory T cells > B cells (but not natural killer cells); desensitization to MIP-3beta inhibits lymphocyte chemotaxis to 6CK/SLC but not to the alpha chemokine SDF-1 (stromal cell-derived factor); and 6CK/SLC competes for MIP-3beta binding to resting mouse lymphocytes. The findings suggest that the majority of circulating lymphocytes respond to 6CK/SLC and MIP-3beta in large part through their common receptor CCR7 and that these molecules may be important mediators of physiological lymphocyte recirculation in vivo.
Circulating lymphocytes are recruited from the blood to the tissue by rolling along the endothelium until being stopped by a signaling event linked to the Gialpha subunit of a heterotrimeric GTP-binding protein; that event then triggers rapid integrin-dependent adhesion. Four chemokines are now shown to induce such adhesion to intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and to induce arrest of rolling cells within 1 second under flow conditions similar to those of blood. SDF-1 (also called PBSF), 6-C-kine (also called Exodus-2), and MIP-3beta (also called ELC or Exodus-3) induced adhesion of most circulating lymphocytes, including most CD4+ T cells; and MIP-3alpha (also called LARC or Exodus-1) triggered adhesion of memory, but not naïve, CD4+ T cells. Thus, chemokines can regulate the arrest of lymphocyte subsets under flowing conditions, which may allow them to control lymphocyte-endothelial cell recognition and lymphocyte recruitment in vivo.
Homeostasis of T cell numbers in the periphery implies an ability of lymphocytes to sense cell numbers. Although the mechanisms are unknown, we find that the chemokine CCL21 (also known as TCA4, SLC, 6Ckine), a ligand for the chemokine receptor CCR7, can regulate homeostasis of CD4 (but not CD8) T cells. In the absence of CCR7 ligands, transferred CD4 T cells failed to expand in lymphopenic hosts, whereas in the presence of CCL21 overexpression, homeostatic CD4 T cell proliferation occurred even in nonlymphopenic recipients. Ag-specific CD4 T cells transferred into Ag-expressing mice proliferated and induced autoimmunity only in lymphopenic recipients. Pancreatic expression of CCL21 was sufficient to replace the requirement for lymphopenia in the progression of autoimmune disease. These results suggest that CD4 T cells use local concentrations of CCR7 ligands as an index of T cell steady state numbers and that homeostatic expansion of the T cell population may be a contributing factor in the development of autoimmune disease.
To test whether accumulation of naive lymphocytes is sufficient to trigger lymphoid development, we generated mice with islet expression of the chemokine TCA4/SLC. This chemokine is specific for naive lymphocytes and mature dendritic cells (DC) which express the CCR7 receptor. Islets initially developed accumulations of T cells with DC, with scattered B cells at the perimeter. These infiltrates consolidated into organized lymphoid tissue, with high endothelial venules and stromal reticulum. Infiltrate lymphocytes showed a naive CD44low CD25- CD69- phenotype, though half were CD62L negative. When backcrossed to RAG-1 knockout, DC were not recruited. Interestingly, islet lymphoid tissue developed in backcrosses to Ikaros knockout mice despite the absence of normal peripheral nodes. Our results indicate that TCA4/SLC can induce the development and organization of lymphoid tissue through diffential recruitment of T and B lymphocytes and secondary effects on stromal cell development.
Chemokines induce chemotaxis of hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPC), and suppress their proliferation. In this study we report that SLC/ Exodus2/6Ckine/TCA4 (hereafter termed SLC) is a chemoattractant for human CD34+ HPC. SLC mainly induces preferential chemotaxis of macrophage progenitors. We examined the chemotactic activity of CXCR3 ligands on CD34+ HPC because it has been reported that SLC is a potential ligand of CXC chemokine receptor, CXCR3, in addition to a CC chemokine receptor, CCR7. It was found that the CXCR3 ligands, MIG and interferon-gamma inducible protein-10 (IP-10), unlike SLC, did not induce chemotaxis of CD34+ HPC. In this regard, CCR7 ligands (SLC and CKbeta-11), but not IP-10 and MIG, induce actin polymerization in CD34+ cells. On the other hand, CCR7 ligands and CXCR3 ligands, but not the CXCR4 ligand SDF-1, showed inhibitory activity for proliferation of myeloid progenitor cells. Our results suggest that SLC is a potential trafficking factor for HPC, and that chemokines that bind CCR7, CXCR4, and CXCR3 have differential biological activities on HPC in terms of suppression and chemotaxis.
Two human CC chemokines, SLC/6Ckine/Exodus2/TCA4 and CKbeta-11/MIP-3beta/ELC, are previously reported as efficacious chemoattractants for T- and B-cells and dendritic cells. SLC and CKbeta-11 share only 32% amino acid identity, but are ligands for the same chemokine receptor, CCR7. In this study, we examined chemotactic activity of SLC and CKbeta-11 for NK cells and lymphoid progenitors in bone marrow and thymus. It was found that these two CCR7 ligands are chemoattractants for neonatal cord blood and adult peripheral blood NK cells and cell lines. SLC and CKbeta-11 preferentially attract the CD56(+)CD16(-) NK cell subset over CD56(+)CD16(+) NK cells. SLC and CKbeta-11 also demonstrate selective chemotactic activity on late stage CD34(-)CD19(+)IgM- B-cell progenitors and CD4(+) and CD8(+) single-positive thymocytes, but not early stage progenitors. It was noted that SLC is an efficient desensitizer of CKbeta-11-dependent NK cell chemotaxis, while CKbeta-11 is a weak desensitizer of SLC-dependent chemotaxis. Taken together, these results suggest that SLC and CKbeta-11 have the potential to control trafficking of NK cell subsets and late stage lymphoid progenitors in bone marrow and thymus.
Antigen presenting cells play a pivotal role in the adaptive immune response in hypersensitivity pneumonitis (HP). It was hypothesised that lymphangiogenesis is involved in the pathophysiology of HP via cell transport.
To determine the clinical significance of lymphangiogenic factors in HP.
Levels of vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGF)-A, VEGF-C, VEGF-D and CCL21 in the serum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were measured in 29 healthy volunteers, 14 patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and 26 patients with HP by ELISA. Additionally, immunohistochemical analyses were performed using lung specimens of patients with HP (n=8) and IPF (n=10).
BALF VEGF-D levels were significantly elevated in patients with HP compared to the other groups. BALF VEGF-D levels in patients with HP correlated significantly with the BALF total cell and lymphocyte counts (r=0.485, p=0.014 and r=0.717, p<0.0001, respectively). BALF VEGF-C and CCL21 levels were increased in patients with HP compared to healthy volunteers, but not patients with IPF. BALF CCL21 levels were negatively correlated with the forced expiratory volume in 1 s percentage and diffuse capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide (r=-0.662, p=0.007 and r=-0.671, p=0.024, respectively). According to the immunohistochemical analyses, CCL21 was expressed in the lymphatic endothelium in both conditions and CCR7(+) cells were aggregated around lymphatics in patients with HP, but not in patients with IPF.
Lymphangiogenic factors might be associated with the inflammatory and functional severity of HP. The increased BALF VEGF-D levels were associated with lymphatic alveolitis intensity, and CCL21 with lung function impairment.
Chemokines are a large family of chemotactic cytokines. Based on the arrangement of the first two cysteine residues, chemokines are divided into four groups, one of which is the CC chemokine group. In this study, we characterized a CC chemokine, CsCCL21, from half-smooth tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis), and analyzed its activity. CsCCL21 contains two conserved N-terminal cysteine residues in a NCCL motif and is phylogenetically related to the CCL19/21/25 subgroup of CC chemokines. CsCCL21 was constitutively expressed in nine tissues and significantly upregulated by bacterial and viral infection. The recombinant CsCCL21 (rCsCCL21) induced migration of peripheral blood leukocytes. When the two conserved cysteine residues in the NCCL motif were mutated, the chemotactic activity of rCsCCL21 was abolished. rCsCCL21 enhanced the resistance of tongue sole against bacterial infection, but the mutant protein with NCCL mutation lacked this antibacterial effect. Taken together, these results suggest that CsCCL21 is a functional CC chemokine with the ability to recruit leukocytes and is involved in antibacterial immunity in a manner that requires the conserved NCCL motif.
Over-activation of cellular inflammatory effectors adversely affects myocardial function after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The CC-chemokine CCL21 is, via its receptor CCR7, one of the key regulators of inflammation and immune cell recruitment, participates in various inflammatory disorders, including cardiovascular ones. This study explored the therapeutic effect of an anti-CCL21 antibody in cardiac remodeling after myocardial infarction.
An animal model of AMI generated by left anterior descending coronary artery ligation in C57BL/6 mice resulted in higher levels of circulating CCL21 and cardiac CCR7. Neutralization of CCL21 by intravenous injection of anti-CCL21 monoclonal antibody reduced infarct size after AMI, decreased serum levels of neutrophil and monocyte chemo attractants post AMI, diminished neutrophil and macrophage recruitment in infarcted myocardium, and suppressed MMP-9 and total collagen content in myocardium. Anti-CCL21 treatment also limited cardiac enlargement and improved left ventricular function.
Our study indicated that CCL21 was involved in cardiac remodeling post infarction and anti-CCL21 strategies might be useful in the treatment of AMI.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1D) is a chronic autoimmune disease caused by the selective destruction of pancreatic β cells, followed by hyperglycemia, oxidative stress and the subsequent extensive impairment of immune cell functions, a phenomenon responsible for the development of chronic diabetic complications. Propolis, a natural bee product that is extensively used in foods and beverages, significantly benefits human health. Specifically, propolis exerts antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects that may improve diabetic complications. To further elucidate the potential benefits of propolis, the present study investigated the effect of dietary supplementation with propolis on the plasma cytokine profiles, free radical levels, lipid profile and lymphocyte proliferation and chemotaxis in a streptozotocin (STZ)-induced type I diabetic mouse model.
Thirty male mice were equally distributed into 3 experimental groups: group 1, non-diabetic control mice; group 2, diabetic mice; and group 3, diabetic mice supplemented daily with an ethanol-soluble derivative of propolis (100 mg/kg body weight) for 1 month.
First, the induction of diabetes in mice was associated with hyperglycemia and significant decreases in the insulin level and the lymphocyte count. In this context, diabetic mice exhibited severe diabetic complications, as demonstrated by a significant decrease in the levels of IL-2, IL-4 and IL-7, prolonged elevation of the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) and altered lipid profiles compared with control non-diabetic mice. Moreover, antigen stimulation of B and T lymphocytes markedly reduced the proliferative capacity and chemotaxis of these cells towards CCL21 and CXCL12 in diabetic mice compared with control mice. Interestingly, compared with diabetes induction alone, treatment of diabetic mice with propolis significantly restored the plasma cytokine and ROS levels and the lipid profile to nearly normal levels. Most importantly, compared with untreated diabetic mice, diabetic mice treated with propolis exhibited significantly enhanced lymphocyte proliferation and chemotaxis towards CCL21 and CXCL12.
Our findings reveal the potential immuno-modulatory effects of propolis, which acts as a natural antioxidant to enhance the function of immune cells during diabetes.
Memory/effector T cells recirculate through extralymphoid tissues by entering from blood and egressing via afferent lymph. Although T cell entry into effector sites is key to inflammation, the relevance of T cell egress to this process is unknown. In this study, we found that Ag recognition at the effector site reduced the tissue egress of proinflammatory Th1 cells in a mouse model of delayed hypersensitivity. Transgenic expression of "tissue exit receptor" CCR7 enhanced lymphatic egress of Ag-sequestered Th1 cells from the inflamed site and alleviated inflammation. In contrast, lack of CCR7 on Th1 cells diminished their tissue egress while enhancing inflammation. Lymph-borne Th1 and Th17 cells draining the inflamed skin of sheep migrated toward the CCR7 ligand CCL21, suggesting the CCR7-CCL21 axis as a physiological target in regulating inflammation. In conclusion, exit receptors can be targeted to modulate T cell dwell time and inflammation at effector sites, revealing T cell tissue egress as a novel control point of inflammation.
Our objective was to better understand the roles of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the CCL21, ERBB3, and TERT genes region in the development of idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIMs), we explored the associations between SNPs in the mentioned three genes and IIMs susceptibility in a Chinese Han population.
Chinese polymyositis (PM) patients (n =291), dermatomyositis (DM) patients (n=526) and ethnically-matched healthy controls (n =968) were genotyped for the CCL21 region SNPs (rs951005 and rs2492358), ERBB3 (rs2292239 and rs11171739), and TERT (rs2853676 and rs10069690), by using the Sequenom MassArray system.
Our study indicated strong allele and genotype associations between rs951005 (OR: 1.65, 95%CI: 1.18-2.30, Pc=0.015; Pc=0.041, respectively) in CCL21 gene and PM patients. Additionally, rs951005 was associated with interstitial lung disease (ILD) in PM patients (Pc =0.01), and was associated with PM patients in additive model. However, the Chinese Han PM/DM patients and controls had statistically similar frequencies of alleles, genotypes and different genetic models (additive, dominant, and recessive) of ERBB3 and TERT polymorphisms.
This was the first study to demonstrate that the CCL21 gene SNP (rs951005) might confer genetic predisposition to PM patients or such patients with ILD in a Chinese Han population.
The cellular prion protein is expressed in almost all tissues, including the central nervous system and lymphoid tissues. To investigate the effects of the prion protein in lymphoid cells and spleen structure formation, we used prion protein-deficient (Prnp(0/0)) Zürich I mice generated by inactivation of the Prnp gene. Prnp(0/0) mice had decreased lymphocytes, in particular, CD4 T cells and lymphoid tissue inducer (LTi) cells. Decreased CD4 T cells resulted from impaired expression of CCL19 and CCL21 in the spleen rather than altered chemokine receptor CCR7 expression. Importantly, some of the white pulp regions in spleens from Prnp(0/0) mice displayed impaired T zone structure as a result of decreased LTi cell numbers and altered expression of the lymphoid tissue-organizing genes lymphotoxin-α and CXCR5, although expression of the lymphatic marker podoplanin and CXCL13 by stromal cells was not affected. In addition, CD3(-)CD4(+)IL-7Rα(+) LTi cells were rarely detected in impaired white pulp in spleens of these mice. These data suggest that the prion protein is required to form the splenic white pulp structure and for development of normal levels of CD4 T and LTi cells.
Human natural killer (NK) cell subsets differentially distribute throughout the organism. While CD56(dim) and CD56(bright) NK cell subsets similarly reside in the bone marrow (BM), the CD56(dim) population predominantly accumulates in non-lymphoid tissues and the CD56(bright) counterpart in lymphoid tissue (LT). The dynamics with which these NK cell subsets redistribute to tissues remains unexplored. Here, we studied individuals newly exposed to fingolimod, a drug that efficiently blocks sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P)-directed lymphocyte - including NK cell - egress from tissue to blood. During an observation period of 6h peripheral blood depletion of CD56(bright) NK cells was observed 3 h after first dose of fingolimod, with 40-50% depletion after 6 h, while a decrease of the numbers of CD56(dim) NK cells did not reach the level of statistical significance. In vitro, CD56(bright) and CD56(dim) NK cells responded comparably to the BM-homing chemokine CXCL12, while CD56(bright) NK cells migrated more efficiently in gradients of the LT-homing chemokines CCL19 and CCL21. In conjuncture with these in vitro studies, the indirectly observed subset-specific depletion kinetics from blood are compatible with preferential and more rapid redistribution of CD56(bright) NK cells from blood to peripheral tissue such as LT and possibly also the inflamed central nervous system. These data shed light on an unexplored level at which access of NK cells to LT, and thus, for example antigen-presenting cells, is regulated.
The CD34+ MUTZ-3 acute myeloid leukemia cell line has been used as a dendritic cell (DC) differentiation model. This cell line can be cultured into Langerhans cell (LC) or interstitial DC-like cells using the same cytokine cocktails used for the differentiation of their primary counterparts. Currently, there is an increasing interest in the study and clinical application of DC generated in the presence of IFNα, as these IFNα-DC produce high levels of inflammatory cytokines and have been suggested to be more potent in their ability to cross-present protein antigens, as compared to the more commonly used IL-4-DC. Here, we report on the generation of IFNα-induced MUTZ-DC. We show that IFNα MUTZ-DC morphologically and phenotypically display characteristic DC features and are functionally equivalent to "classic" IL-4 MUTZ-DC. IFNα MUTZ-DC ingest exogenous antigens and can subsequently cross-present HLA class-I restricted epitopes to specific CD8+ T cells. Importantly, mature IFNα MUTZ-DC express CCR7, migrate in response to CCL21, and are capable of priming naïve antigen-specific CD8+ T cells. In conclusion, we show that the MUTZ-3 cell line offers a viable and sustainable model system to study IFNα driven DC development and functionality.
QBP359 is an IgG1 human monoclonal antibody that binds with high affinity to human CCL21, a chemokine hypothesized to play a role in inflammatory disease conditions through activation of resident CCR7-expressing fibroblasts/myofibroblasts. The pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of QBP359 in non-human primates were characterized through an integrated approach, combining PK, PD, immunogenicity, immunohistochemistry (IHC) and tissue profiling data from single- and multiple-dose experiments in cynomolgus monkeys. When compared with regular immunoglobulin typical kinetics, faster drug clearance was observed in serum following intravenous administration of 10 mg/kg and 50 mg/kg of QBP359. We have shown by means of PK/PD modeling that clearance of mAb-ligand complex is the most likely explanation for the rapid clearance of QBP359 in cynomolgus monkey. IHC and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry data suggested a high turnover and synthesis rate of CCL21 in tissues. Although lymphoid tissue was expected to accumulate drug due to the high levels of CCL21 present, bioavailability following subcutaneous administration in monkeys was 52%. In human disease states, where CCL21 expression is believed to be expressed at 10-fold higher concentrations compared with cynomolgus monkeys, the PK/PD model of QBP359 and its binding to CCL21 suggested that very large doses requiring frequent administration of mAb would be required to maintain suppression of CCL21 in the clinical setting. This highlights the difficulty in targeting soluble proteins with high synthesis rates.
Reports of lymphatics in the anterior human uvea are contradictory. This might be caused due to a certain topography, which has not been considered yet. Therefore, here we systematically analyze iris and adjacent ciliary body with immunohistochemistry by combining various lymphatic markers.
Human iris and ciliary body were obtained from cornea donors and prepared for cryosectioning. Cross sections of tissue blocks at 12/3/6/9 o'clock position and at corresponding intersections (1:30/4:30/7:30/10:30) were processed for immunohistochemistry of LYVE-1, PDPN, PROX1, FOXC2, VEGFR3, and CCL21, and when necessary, these lymphatic markers were combined with CD31, α-smooth muscle-actin, CD68, and 4',6-diamidino-2 phenylindole dihydrochloride (DAPI). Double, triple, and quadruple marker combinations were documented using confocal microscopy.
Numerous podoplanin+ cells were mainly located at the anterior border of the iris while LYVE-1+ cells were distributed throughout the nonpigmented part. Both cell populations were PROX1/FOXC2/CCL21/VEGFR3-. Blood vessels, iris smooth muscles, and individual cells were VEGFR3+. While PDPN+ cells were rarely detected posteriorly of the iris root, many LYVE-1+ cells were present within the ciliary body muscle and villi. Within the muscle, occasionally PDPN+ vessel-like structures were detectable, but these were never colocalized with LYVE-1. Similar vessel-like structures were VEGFR3+/PROX1-/CCL21-, but CD31+. Further, ciliary muscle fibers and ciliary epithelium were immunoreactive for VEGFR3/CCL21, but were LYVE-1/PDPN-. A certain topography of structures at the various uvea-positions investigated was not obvious. The majority of LYVE-1+ cells displayed immunoreactivity for CD68.
Lymphatic vessels colocalizing for at least two lymphatic markers were not detectable. Therefore, if present, putative lymphatic channels of the anterior uvea might display a different marker panel than generally presumed.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1D) is associated with increased type 1 interferon (IFN) levels and subsequent severe defects in lymphocyte function, which increase susceptibility to infections. The blockade of type 1 IFN receptor 1 (IFNAR1) in non-obese diabetic mice has been shown to delay T1D onset and decrease T1D incidence by enhancing spleen CD4+ T cells and restoring B cell function. However, the effect of type 1 IFN blockade during T1D on splenic CD8+ T cells has not previously been studied. Therefore, we investigated, for the first time, the effect of IFNAR1 blockade on the survival and architecture of spleen-homing CD8+ T cells in a streptozotocin-induced T1D mouse model. Three groups of mice were examined: a non-diabetic control group; a diabetic group; and a diabetic group treated with an anti-IFNAR1 blocking antibody. We observed that T1D induction was accompanied by a marked destruction of β cells followed by a marked reduction in insulin levels and increased IFN-α and IFN-β levels in the diabetic group. The diabetic mice also exhibited many abnormal changes including an elevation in blood and spleen free radical (reactive oxygen species and nitric oxide) and pro-inflammatory cytokine (IL-6 and TNF-α) levels, a significant decrease in IL-7 levels, and subsequently, a significant decrease in the numbers of spleen-homing CD8+ T cells. This decrease in spleen-homing CD8+ T cells resulted from a marked reduction in the CCL21-mediated entry of CD8+ T cells into the spleen and from increased apoptosis due to a marked reduction in IL-7-mediated STAT5 and AKT phosphorylation. Interestingly, type 1 IFN signaling blockade in diabetic mice significantly restored the numbers of splenic CD8+ T cells by restoring free radical, pro-inflammatory cytokine and IL-7 levels. These effects subsequently rescued splenic CD8+ T cells from apoptosis through a mechanism that was dependent upon CCL21- and IL-7-mediated signaling. Our data suggest that type 1 IFN is an essential mediator of pathogenesis in T1D and that this role results from the negative effect of IFN signaling on the survival of splenic CD8+ T cells.
The spleen combines the innate and adaptive immune systems in a uniquely organized way. The excision of spleen will induce many complications, especially the increased susceptibility to infections. Recent research shows that besides playing roles during the immune responses, the spleen is also an important organ during immunoregulation, which is different from other secondary lymphoid organs. This unique function is mainly realized by modulating cell migration and proliferation in the spleen. This review provides a better understanding of the functions of this complex organ gained from recent studies.
The functional relevance of synovial ectopic lymphoid neogenesis (ELN) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) remains unknown. As ELN correlates with the degree of tissue inflammation, we investigated whether ELN was associated with specific cytokine profiles.
Synovial ELN was determined by immunohistology and long CD21 isoform (CD21L) expression. Cytokine expression was determined by multiplex enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) as well as immunohistology in synovial fluid (SF) (n = 44) and tissue (ST) (n = 108), respectively. Production of ELN-associated chemokines by fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) was studied in vitro.
Screening analysis of SF by multiplex ELISA showed higher protein levels of interleukin (IL)-23 (p = 0.018) and IL-17F (p = 0.028) in ELN+ versus ELN- samples. Other cytokines, including IL-17A, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, were not different. The association between IL-23 and ELN was not biased by disease activity or other clinical features and was confirmed by higher IL-23 mRNA expression in ELN+ versus ELN- ST samples (p = 0.030), a correlation between IL-23 and CD21L expression in the same samples (r = 0.70 p < 0.0001), and a similar correlation in two independent ST sample sets (r = 0.778 p < 0.0001 and r = 0.817 p = 0.011). IL-23 p19 staining was neither restricted nor enhanced in close proximity of ectopic lymphoid follicles, and neither IL-23 nor IL-17A stimulation induced expression of the ELN-associated CC chemokine ligand, CCL21 and CXC chemokine ligand CXCL13, by FLS. Downstream of IL-23, CD21L expression was significantly associated with IL-17F, IL-21, and IL-22, but not IL-17A in two independent ST sample sets.
Synovial ELN in RA is strongly associated with activation of the IL-23 pathway but not with IL-17A.
Objective To identify the distribution of chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 21 (CCL21) in the thymus of patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) and explore the effects of up-regulation of CCL21 on the expressions of antigen presentation-related genes in cytokeratin 8/18 (CK8/18) positive thymic epithelial cells (TECs) after transfected with CCL21 genes. Methods The expressions and distributions of CK8/18 and CCL21 in the thymus tissue of MG patients were detected by immunohistochemistry. The mRNA levels of CCL21, CCL19 and their receptor chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 7 (CCR7) in the thymus tissue of MG patients were determined by real-time quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR). Primary cultured CK8/18(+) TECs were transfected with pCMV-CCL21, and the relative mRNA expressions of function-associated genes (CD80, ICAM-1, CD86, HLA-DR, HLA-A) in CK8/18(+) TECs before and after the transfection were investigated by qRT-PCR. Results Immunohistochemical results showed that the number of CK8/18 positive cells in the hyperplastic thymus tissues of MG patients was significantly more than that in the normal controls, and the protein expression of CCL21 was also much higher in the hyperplastic thymus tissues. The qRT-PCR showed that the expressions of CCL21 and CCR7 mRNA increased significantly in hyperplastic thymus tissues of MG patients compared with those in normal controls, while there was no difference in the expression of CCL19. Furthermore, CK8/18 positive cells were found mainly located in cortico-medullary junction and medulla area. The relative mRNA expression levels of HLA-A, HLA-DR, ICAM and CD80 rose significantly in CK8/18(+) TECs after transfected with pCMV-CCL21. Conclusion The over-expression of CCL21 could increased the expressions of antigen presentation-related genes in CK8/18(+) TECs in MG patients.
CCL19 and CCL21 are chemokines involved in the trafficking of immune cells, particularly within the lymphatic system, through activation of CCR7. Concurrent expression of PSGL-1 and CCR7 in naive T-cells enhances recruitment of these cells to secondary lymphoid organs by CCL19 and CCL21. Here the solution structure of CCL19 is reported. It contains a canonical chemokine domain. Chemical shift mapping shows the N-termini of PSGL-1 and CCR7 have overlapping binding sites for CCL19 and binding is competitive. Implications for the mechanism of PSGL-1's enhancement of resting T-cell recruitment are discussed.
Intravital imaging has revealed that T cells change their migratory behavior during physiological activation inside lymphoid tissue. Yet, it remains less well investigated how the intrinsic migratory capacity of activated T cells is regulated by chemokine receptor levels or other regulatory elements. Here, we used an adjuvant-driven inflammation model to examine how motility patterns corresponded with CCR7, CXCR4, and CXCR5 expression levels on ovalbumin-specific DO11.10 CD4(+) T cells in draining lymph nodes. We found that while CCR7 and CXCR4 surface levels remained essentially unaltered during the first 48-72 h after activation of CD4(+) T cells, their in vitro chemokinetic and directed migratory capacity to the respective ligands, CCL19, CCL21, and CXCL12, was substantially reduced during this time window. Activated T cells recovered from this temporary decrease in motility on day 6 post immunization, coinciding with increased migration to the CXCR5 ligand CXCL13. The transiently impaired CD4(+) T cell motility pattern correlated with increased LFA-1 expression and augmented phosphorylation of the microtubule regulator Stathmin on day 3 post immunization, yet neither microtubule destabilization nor integrin blocking could reverse TCR-imprinted unresponsiveness. Furthermore, protein kinase C (PKC) inhibition did not restore chemotactic activity, ruling out PKC-mediated receptor desensitization as mechanism for reduced migration in activated T cells. Thus, we identify a cell-intrinsic, chemokine receptor level-uncoupled decrease in motility in CD4(+) T cells shortly after activation, coinciding with clonal expansion. The transiently reduced ability to react to chemokinetic and chemotactic stimuli may contribute to the sequestering of activated CD4(+) T cells in reactive peripheral lymph nodes, allowing for integration of costimulatory signals required for full activation.
Chronic myeloid leukemia is a clonal disease characterized by the presence of the Philadelphia chromosome and its oncogenic product, BCR-ABL, which activates multiple pathways involved in cell survival, growth promotion, and disease progression. We previously reported that in murine hematopoietic Ba/F3 cells, signal transducing adaptor protein-2 (STAP-2) binds to BCR-ABL and up-regulates BCR-ABL phosphorylation, leading to enhanced activation of its downstream signaling molecules. The binding of STAP-2 to BCR-ABL also influenced the expression levels of chemokine receptors, such as CXCR4 and CCR7. For the induction of CCR7 expression, signals mediated by the MAPK/ERK pathway were critical in Ba/F3 cells expressing BCR-ABL and STAP-2. In addition, STAP-2 cooperated with BCR-ABL to induce the production of CCR7 ligands, CCL19 and CCL21. Our results demonstrate a contribution of CCR7 to STAP-2-dependent enhancement of BCR-ABL-mediated cell growth in Ba/F3 cells.
Monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DCs) are used as immunoadjuvant cells in cancer vaccines and have made great progress. However, an optimal DCs subset is vital for this treatment effect, the current 'gold standard' cytokine cocktail DCs have a shortcoming in their cytokines secretion, especially IL-12p70, mainly because of the existence of PGE2. Therefore, it is necessary to find an appropriate DCs-based immunotherapeutic protocol. In this study, we compared a novel 'improved' maturation cytokine cocktail with the current 'gold standard' maturation cytokine cocktail used for generating standard DCs. The 'improved' maturation cytokine cocktail DCs showed a higher levels surface markers expression (CD80, CD83, CD86 and HLA-DR), the chemokine receptors CXCR4 and CCR7 and chemokine CCL19, CCL21 and CXCL21, whereas CCR5 expression was reduced. Most importantly, in contrast to 'gold standard' DCs, which secrete little IL-12p70 and as a result induce mainly Th2 immunity, 'improved' cytokine cocktail DCs secreted higher levels IL-12p70 and also secreted similar concentration IL-10. To removal of PGE2 from the 'improved' DCs did increase the IL-12p70 production. In conclusion, we here present the 'improved' DCs, as an optimal maturation cocktail protocol, can induce high migratory potential, generate immunostimulatory DCs, produce higher levels IL-12p70 with superior capacity to induce Th1 immunity, when compared with the 'gold standard' DCs.
In addition to the secretion of Ag-specific Abs, B cells may play an important role in the generation of immune responses by efficiently presenting Ag to T cells. We and other investigators recently described a subpopulation of CD11c(+) B cells (Age/autoimmune-associated B cells [ABCs]) that appear with age, during virus infections, and at the onset of some autoimmune diseases and participate in autoimmune responses by secreting autoantibodies. In this study, we assessed the ability of these cells to present Ag and activate Ag-specific T cells. We demonstrated that ABCs present Ag to T cells, in vitro and in vivo, better than do follicular B cells (FO cells). Our data indicate that ABCs express higher levels of the chemokine receptor CCR7, have higher responsiveness to CCL21 and CCL19 than do FO cells, and are localized at the T/B cell border in spleen. Using multiphoton microscopy, we show that, in vivo, CD11c(+) B cells form significantly more stable interactions with T cells than do FO cells. Together, these data identify a previously undescribed role for ABCs as potent APCs and suggest another potential mechanism by which these cells can influence immune responses and/or the development of autoimmunity.
The presence of lymph node (LN)-like vasculature in tumours, characterized by expression of peripheral node addressin and chemokine CCL21, is correlated with T-cell infiltration and positive prognosis in breast cancer and melanoma patients. However, mechanisms controlling the development of LN-like vasculature and how it might contribute to a beneficial outcome for cancer patients are unknown. Here we demonstrate that LN-like vasculature is present in murine models of melanoma and lung carcinoma. It enables infiltration by naive T cells that significantly delay tumour outgrowth after intratumoral activation. Development of this vasculature is controlled by a mechanism involving effector CD8 T cells and NK cells that secrete LTα3 and IFNγ. LN-like vasculature is also associated with organized aggregates of B lymphocytes and gp38(+) fibroblasts, which resemble tertiary lymphoid organs that develop in models of chronic inflammation. These results establish LN-like vasculature as both a consequence of and key contributor to anti-tumour immunity.
It is well documented that inflammatory chemokines play a significant role in the development of multiple sclerosis (MS) and its model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Recently, the involvement of homeostatic (or lymphoid) chemokines in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases has become an object of intensive study. In this work, quantitative analysis of CCL19, CCL21 and CCR7 expression in the central nervous system (CNS), as well as in inflammatory mononuclear cells isolated from several organs during the first attack, remission and the second attack of chronic-relapsing EAE (ChREAE), was performed. Using real-time PCR, RNAse Protection Assay and immunohistochemistry, the expression of both chemokines, as well as of their common receptor CCR7, was analyzed in the brain, spleen, lymph nodes and peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Increased expression of CCL19 and CCL21 was observed mostly in mononuclear inflammatory cells isolated from the CNS during active ChREAE. At the same time the expression of CCR7 in blood mononuclear leukocytes was reduced. This observation extends our current knowledge about the possible role of chemokines CCL19, CCL21 and their receptor CCR7 in the pathogenesis of ChREAE and, by extension, MS.
The inability to target cancer stem cells (CSC) may be a significant factor contributing to treatment failure. We have developed a strategy to target the CSC populations in melanoma and squamous cell carcinoma using CSC lysate-pulsed dendritic cells (DCs). The CSC-DC vaccine was administered in the adjuvant setting after localized radiation therapy of established tumors. Using mouse models we demonstrated that DCs pulsed with CSCs enriched by virtue of their expression of the CSC marker ALDH (termed CSC-DC) significantly inhibited tumor growth, reduced development of pulmonary metastases and prolonged survival. The effect was associated with downregulation of chemokine (C-C motif) receptors CCR7 and CCR10 in tumor cells and decreased expression of the chemokine (C-C motif) ligands CCL21, CCL27 and CCL28 in lung tissue. The CSC-DC vaccine significantly reduced ALDH(high) CSC frequency in primary tumors. Direct targeting of CSCs was demonstrated by the specific binding of IgG produced by ALDH(high) CSC-DC vaccine-primed B cells to ALDH(high) CSCs, resulting in lysis of these target CSCs in the presence of complement. These data suggest that the CSC-DC vaccine approach may be useful in the adjuvant setting where local and systemic relapse are high after conventional treatment of cancers.
The aim of this study was to elucidate the mechanisms responsible for the location of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (B-NHL) at different anatomical sites. We speculated that the malignant B cells in these disorders have the potential for trafficking between blood and secondary lymphoid organs (SLO) or extranodal sites and that their preferential accumulation at different locations is governed by the expression of key molecules that regulate the trafficking of normal lymphocytes.
Biopsy or blood samples from 91 cases of B-NHL affecting SLO (n = 27), ocular adnexae (n = 51) or blood (n = 13) were analysed by immunohistochemistry or flow cytometry for the expression of the following molecules: CCR7, CCL21 and αL (required for the entry of normal lymphocytes into SLO); CXCR4, CXCL12 and α4 (required for entry into extranodal sites); CXCR5, CXCL13 and S1PR2 (required for tissue retention); S1PR1 and S1PR3 (required for egress into the blood). The expression of each of these molecules was then related to anatomical location and histological subtype.
The expression of motility/adhesion molecules varied widely between individual patient samples and correlated much more strongly with anatomical location than with histological subtype. SLO lymphomas [comprising 10 follicular lymphoma (FL), 8 diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), 4 mantle-cell lymphoma (MCL) and 5 marginal-zone lymphoma (MZL)] were characterised by pronounced over-expression of S1PR2, suggesting that the malignant cells in these lymphomas are actively retained at the site of clonal expansion. In contrast, the malignant B cells in ocular adnexal lymphomas (10 FL, 9 DLBCL, 4 MCL and 28 MZL) expressed a profile of molecules suggesting a dynamic process of trafficking involving not only tissue retention but also egress via S1PR3 and homing back to extranodal sites via CXCR4/CXCL12 and α4. Finally, leukaemic lymphomas (6 FL, 5 MCL and 2 MZL) were characterised by aberrant expression of the egress receptor S1PR1 and low expression of molecules required for tissue entry/retention.
In summary, our study strongly suggests that anatomical location in B-NHL is governed by the differential expression of specific adhesion/motility molecules. This novel observation has important implications for therapeutic strategies that aim to disrupt protective micro-environmental interactions.
Homing to distinct lymphoid organs enables chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells to receive pro-survival and proliferative signals. Cytogenetic aberrations can significantly affect CLL cell compartmentalization. Trisomy 12 (tri12) defines a CLL subgroup with specific clinical features and increased levels of the negative prognostic marker CD49d, the α4-subunit of the integrin VLA-4, which is a key regulator of CLL cell homing to bone marrow (BM). Chemokine-induced inside-out VLA-4 activation, particularly via the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis, increases the arrest of various cell types on VCAM-1 presenting endothelium. Here, we demonstrate that high CD49d expression in tri12 CLL is accompanied by decreased CXCR4 expression. Dissecting functional consequences of these alterations, we observed that tri12 CLL cell homing to murine BM is not affected by CXCR4-CXCL12 blockage using AMD3100 or olaptesed pegol/NOX-A12. In line, CCL21-CCR7 rather than CXCL12-CXCR4 interactions triggered VLA-4-mediated arrests of tri12 CLL cells to VCAM-1 under blood flow conditions. Concordantly, in real-time kinetic analyses we found CCL21 but not CXCL12 being capable to induce inside-out VLA-4 conformational changes in this CLL subgroup. Our results provide novel insights into the peculiar clinico-biological behaviour of tri12 CLL and emphasize its specific chemokine and integrin utilization during pathophysiologically and therapeutically relevant interactions with the microenvironment.
We compared migration activities of IFN-α- and IL-4-induced dendritic cells (IFN-DC and IL4-DC) generated from blood monocytes of healthy donors and analyzed migration activity of IFN-DC from patients with brain tumors. In the presence of CCL19 chemokine, donor IFN-DC exhibited higher migration activity than IL4-DC, the expression of chemokine CCR7-receptor being similar in the two cell types. IFN-DC of patients with malignant gliomas were characterized by low chemotaxis in response to CCL19 and CCL21 stimulation despite a trend to higher expression of CCR7 in comparison with donor IFN-DC.
Costimulatory blockade with anti-CD40L monoclonal antibody (mAb) plus donor-specific splenocyte transfusion (DST) induces alloantigen-specific tolerance. We previously showed that lymphotoxin signaling in the fibroblastic reticular cell (FRC) stromal subset was required for proper lymph node structure and function during tolerization in murine cardiac transplantation. Here we focused on FRC functions and hypothesized that DST and anti-CD40L mAb-modulated FRC interactions with CD4 T cells in mice.
Mice were immunized or tolerized by DST or DST plus anti-CD40L mAb. Fibroblastic reticular cells were flow-sorted at different timepoints for characterization and in vitro proliferation and activation assays.
Fibroblastic reticular cells responded rapidly to DST by transcribing inflammatory cytokine and chemokine messenger RNAs, such as CXCL2, CXCL9, CXCL10, and CCL21. Conversely, anti-CD40L mAb inhibited FRC inflammatory responses. CD40 was expressed on FRC and agonistic anti-CD40 mAb activated FRC, which supported CD4 T-cell proliferation, whereas unstimulated FRC did not. Anti-CD3 mAb-activated CD4 T cells induced inflammatory cytokine and chemokine expressions by FRC, which were inhibited by anti-CD40L mAb. Thus, FRC phenotype was altered by interaction with CD4 T cells through CD40-CD40L, and activated FRC interacted directly with CD4 T cells to support T cell activation and proliferation in vitro.
Taken together, these results demonstrated that CD40 on FRC facilitated bidirectional communication between FRC and CD4 T cells via CD40-CD40L, thereby altering FRC gene expression of immune regulatory molecules. Because blockade of CD40-CD40L interactions results in tolerance in mice, identification of FRC-T cell interactions provides a new research target for tolerance induction.
The chemokine C receptor 7 (CCR7) is a G-protein-coupled heptahelical receptor (GPCR) that is expressed on a wide variety of cells including memory T cells, B cells, mature dendritic cells, and cancer cells. Activated by its ligands CCL19 or CCL21, CCR7 plays a major role in metastasis of cancer cells. Recent studies demonstrated the role of NF-κB and AP-1 transcription factors in addition to let-7 microRNA in CCR7 expression. Our ChIP assays further show the binding of Sp-1, Sp-3 and NFAT-1 transcription factors to their potential binding sites in the 1Kb promoter region with the later found to inhibit whilst Sp-1, and Sp-3 were found to stimulate CCR7 expression as demonstrated by transfection assays. On the other hand, in addition to the known let-7 regulation of CCR7, we found miR-21 to have a highly conserved target region in CCR7 3'UTR and to be significantly down-regulated during the course of dendritic cell maturation, allowing for high expression of CCR7.
Apoptosis-inducing factor, mitochondrion-associated 2 (Aifm2), is a DNA-binding oxoreductase protein that promotes apoptosis. To assess its potential role in erythropoiesis we analyzed the effects of Aifm2 loss-of-function in the murine erythroleukemia line (MEL).
MEL cells were transfected with siRNA targeting Aifm2 for 24 h and evaluated by cell counting, flow cytometry with annexin V and PI staining and gene expression analysis.
Aifm2 knockdown did not affect the apoptotic status of MEL cells. However, Aifm2 knockdown significantly increased expression of the erythropoietic transcription factor Klf1 (2.9±0.2-fold, p<0.05) and decreased α- and β-globin expression (0.6±0.2-fold, p<0.05 and 0.5±0.2-fold, p<0.01).
Aifm2 may function in differentiation of erythroid MEL cells in vitro.
Erythropoiesis, in which committed progenitor cells generate millions of erythrocytes daily, involves dramatic changes in the chromatin structure and transcriptome of erythroblasts, prior to their enucleation. While the involvement of the master-regulatory transcription factors GATA binding protein 1 (GATA-1) and GATA-2 in this process is established, the mechanistic contributions of many chromatin-modifying/remodeling enzymes in red cell biology remain enigmatic. We demonstrated that SetD8, a histone methyltransferase that catalyzes monomethylation of histone H4 at lysine 20 (H4K20me1), is a context-dependent GATA-1 corepressor in erythroid cells. To determine whether SetD8 controls erythroid maturation and/or function, we used a small hairpin RNA (shRNA)-based loss-of-function strategy in a primary murine erythroblast culture system. In this system, SetD8 promoted erythroblast maturation and survival, and this did not involve upregulation of the established regulator of erythroblast survival Bcl-x(L). SetD8 catalyzed H4K20me1 at a critical Gata2 cis element and restricted occupancy by an enhancer of Gata2 transcription, Scl/TAL1, thereby repressing Gata2 transcription. Elevating GATA-2 levels in erythroid precursors yielded a maturation block comparable to that induced by SetD8 downregulation. As lowering GATA-2 expression in the context of SetD8 knockdown did not rescue erythroid maturation, we propose that SetD8 regulation of erythroid maturation involves multiple target genes. These results establish SetD8 as a determinant of erythroid cell maturation and provide a framework for understanding how a broadly expressed histone-modifying enzyme mediates cell-type-specific GATA factor function.
The normal expression of β-globin protein in mature erythrocytes is critically dependent on post-transcriptional events in erythroid progenitors that ensure the high stability of β-globin mRNA. Previous work has revealed that these regulatory processes require AUF-1 and YB-1, two RNA-binding proteins that assemble an mRNP β-complex on the β-globin 3'UTR. Here, we demonstrate that the β-complex organizes during the erythropoietic interval when both β-globin mRNA and protein accumulate rapidly, implicating the importance of this regulatory mRNP to normal erythroid differentiation. Subsequent functional analyses link β-complex assembly to the half-life of β-globin mRNA in vivo, providing a mechanistic basis for this regulatory activity. AUF-1 and YB-1 appear to serve a redundant post-transcriptional function, as both β-complex assembly and β-globin mRNA levels are reduced by coordinate depletion of the two factors, and can be restored by independent rescue with either factor alone. Additional studies demonstrate that the β-complex assembles more efficiently on polyadenylated transcripts, implicating a model in which the β-complex enhances the binding of PABPC1 to the poly(A) tail, inhibiting mRNA deadenylation and consequently effecting the high half-life of β-globin transcripts in erythroid progenitors. These data specify a post-transcriptional mechanism through which AUF1 and YB1 contribute to the normal development of erythropoietic cells, as well as to non-hematopoietic tissues in which AUF1- and YB1-based regulatory mRNPs have been observed to assemble on heterologous mRNAs.
Autophagy is a process that leads to the degradation of unnecessary or dysfunctional cellular components and long-lived protein aggregates. Erythropoiesis is a branch of hematopoietic differentiation by which mature red blood cells (RBCs) are generated from multi-potential hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Autophagy plays a critical role in the elimination of mitochondria, ribosomes and other organelles during erythroid terminal differentiation. Here, the modulators of autophagy that regulate erythroid differentiation were summarized, including autophagy-related (Atg) genes, the B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) family member Bcl-2/adenovirus E1B 19 kDa interacting protein 3-like (Nix/Binp3L), transcription factors globin transcription factor 1 (GATA1) and forkhead box O3 (FoxO3), intermediary factor KRAB-associated protein1 (KAP1), and other modulators, such as focal adhesion kinase family-interacting protein of 200-kDa (FIP200), Ca2+ and 15-lipoxygenase. Understanding the modulators of autophagy in erythropoiesis will benefit the autophagy research field and facilitate the prevention and treatment of autophagy-related red blood cell disorders.
The CD71/Ter119 combination has been widely used to reflect dynamic maturation of erythrocytes in vivo. However, because CD71 is expressed on all proliferating cells, it is unclear whether it can be utilized as an erythrocyte-specific marker during differentiation of embryonic stem cells (ESCs). In this study, we revealed that a population expressing high level of CD71 (CD71(high)) during mouse ESC differentiation represented an in vitro counterpart of yolk sac-derived primitive erythroblasts (EryPs) isolated at 8.5days post coitum. In addition, these CD71(high) cells went through "maturational globin switching" and enucleated during terminal differentiation in vitro that were similar to the yolk sac-derived EryPs in vivo. We further demonstrated that the formation of CD71(high) population was regulated differentially by key factors including Scl, HoxB4, Eaf1, and Klf1. Taken together, our study provides a technical advance that allows efficient segregation of EryPs from differentiated ESCs in vitro for further understanding molecular regulation during primitive erythropoiesis.
Growth factor independence 1 (Gfi-1) is a part of the transcriptional network that regulates the development of adult hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Gfi-1-null (Gfi-1(-/-)) mice have reduced numbers of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), impaired radioprotective function of hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs), and myeloid and erythroid hyperplasia. We found that the development of HPCs and erythropoiesis, but not HSC function, was rescued by reducing the expression of inhibitor of DNA-binding protein 2 (Id2) in Gfi-1(-/-) mice. Analysis of Gfi-1(-/-);Id2(+/-) mice revealed that short-term HSCs, common myeloid progenitors (CMPs), erythroid burst-forming units, colony-forming units in spleen, and more differentiated red cells were partially restored by reducing Id2 levels in Gfi-1(-/-) mice. Moreover, short-term reconstituting cells, and, to a greater extent, CMP and megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitor development, and red blood cell production (anemia) were rescued in mice transplanted with Gfi-1(-/-);Id2(+/-) bone marrow cells (BMCs) in comparison with Gfi-1(-/-) BMCs. Reduction of Id2 expression in Gfi-1(-/-) mice increased the expression of Gata1, Eklf, and EpoR, which are required for proper erythropoiesis. Reducing the levels of other Id family members (Id1 and Id3) in Gfi-1(-/-) mice did not rescue impaired HPC function or erythropoiesis. These data provide new evidence that Gfi-1 is linked to the erythroid gene regulatory network by repressing Id2 expression.
Emerging evidence has shown that microRNAs have key roles in regulating various normal physiological processes, whereas their deregulated expression is correlated with various diseases. The miR-146 family includes miR-146a and miR-146b, with a distinct expression spectrum in different hematopoietic cells. Recent work indicated that miR-146a has a close relationship with inflammation and autoimmune diseases. miR-146-deficient mice have developed some abnormal hematopoietic phenotypes, suggesting the potential functions of miR-146 in hematopoietic development. In this study, we found that miR-146b was consistently up-regulated in both K562 and CD34(+) hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) undergoing either erythroid or megakaryocytic differentiation. Remarkably, erythroid and megakaryocytic maturation of K562 cells was induced by excess miR-146b but inhibited by decreased miR-146b levels. More importantly, an mRNA encoding receptor tyrosine kinase, namely platelet-derived growth factor receptor α (PDGFRA), was identified and validated as a direct target of miR-146b in hematopoietic cells. Gain-of-function and loss-of-function assays showed that PDGFRA functioned as a negative regulator in erythroid and megakaryocytic differentiation. miR-146b could ultimately affect the expression of the GATA-1 gene, which is regulated by HEY1 (Hairy/enhancer-of-split related with YRPW motif protein 1), a transcriptional repressor, via inhibition of the PDGFRA/JNK/JUN/HEY1 pathway. Lentivirus-mediated gene transfer also demonstrated that the overexpression of miR-146b promoted erythropoiesis and megakaryocytopoiesis of HSPCs via its regulation on the PDGFRA gene and effects on GATA-1 expression. Moreover, we confirmed that the binding of GATA-1 to the miR-146b promoter and induction of miR-146b during hematopoietic maturation were dependent on GATA-1. Therefore, miR-146b, PDGFRA, and GATA-1 formed a regulatory circuit to promote erythroid and megakaryocytic differentiation.
The directed differentiation toward erythroid (E) or megakaryocytic (MK) lineages by the MK-E progenitor (MEP) could enhance the ex vivo generation of red blood cells and platelets for therapeutic transfusions. The lineage choice at the MEP bifurcation is controlled in large part by activity within the intracellular signal transduction network, the output of which determines the activity of transcription factors (TFs) and ultimately gene expression. Although many TFs have been implicated, E or MK differentiation is a complex process requiring multiple days, and the dynamics of TF activities during commitment and terminal maturation are relatively unexplored. Herein, we applied a living cell array for the large-scale, dynamic quantification of TF activities during MEP bifurcation. A panel of hematopoietic TFs (GATA-1, GATA-2, SCL/TAL1, FLI-1, NF-E2, PU.1, c-Myb) was characterized during E and MK differentiation of bipotent K562 cells. Dynamic TF activity profiles associated with differentiation towards each lineage were identified, and validated with previous reports. From these activity profiles, we show that GATA-1 is an important hub during early hemin- and PMA-induced differentiation, and reveal several characteristic TF interactions for E and MK differentiation that confirm regulatory mechanisms documented in the literature. Additionally, we highlight several novel TF interactions at various stages of E and MK differentiation. Furthermore, we investigated the mechanism by which nicotinamide (NIC) promoted terminal MK maturation using an MK-committed cell line, CHRF-288-11 (CHRF). Concomitant with its enhancement of ploidy, NIC strongly enhanced the activity of three TFs with known involvement in terminal MK maturation: FLI-1, NF-E2, and p53. Dynamic profiling of TF activity represents a novel tool to complement traditional assays focused on mRNA and protein expression levels to understand progenitor cell differentiation.
Runx1 and Cbfβ are critical for the establishment of definitive hematopoiesis and are implicated in leukemic transformation. Despite the absolute requirements for these factors in the development of hematopoietic stem cells and lymphocytes, their roles in the development of bone marrow progenitor subsets have not been defined. Here, we demonstrate that Cbfβ is essential for the development of Flt3(+) macrophage-dendritic cell (DC) progenitors in the bone marrow and all DC subsets in the periphery. Besides the loss of DC progenitors, pan-hematopoietic Cbfb-deficient mice also lack CD105(+) erythroid progenitors, leading to severe anemia at 3 to 4 months of age. Instead, Cbfb deficiency results in aberrant progenitor differentiation toward granulocyte-macrophage progenitors (GMPs), resulting in a myeloproliferative phenotype with accumulation of GMPs in the periphery and cellular infiltration of the liver. Expression of the transcription factor Irf8 is severely reduced in Cbfb-deficient progenitors, and overexpression of Irf8 restors DC differentiation. These results demonstrate that Runx proteins and Cbfβ restrict granulocyte lineage commitment to facilitate multilineage hematopoietic differentiation and thus identify their novel tumor suppressor function in myeloid leukemia.
The purpose of this study was to examine the gene expression profile of granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mobilized peripheral blood (mPB)-derived progenitors, used in transplantation.
We correlated gene expression patterns of highly enriched steady-state peripheral blood (PB)- and mPB-derived CD71+ cells by microarray and ingenuity pathway analyses, to identify the transcriptional program during in vitro erythroid differentiation.
The gene expression was more than doubled in mPB-derived (4180 genes) compared to PB-derived erythroid progenitors (1667 genes) while PB-and mPB-derived erythroid progenitors shared 1534 common genes. Comparative analysis of transcript levels showed differential expression of 54 genes between cultured erythroid progenitors of PB and mPB origin, where we identified common 13 downregulated and 30 upregulated genes. The most significant genes in mPB-derived erythroid progenitors were P4HB, DDIA3, ARPC2 and ATP5G3. Regarding G-CSF stimulation the G-CSF receptor CSF2RB (1.1-fold) was linked via STAT3 to erythroid-specific ALAS2 (2.9-fold) and GATA2 (1.3-fold) factors, all upregulated in mPB-derived erythroid progenitors, coupled to common upregulated NUDC gene involved in the proliferation of erythroid cells.
This report provides an extensive transcriptional profile of cultured erythroid progenitors and leads to a better understanding of diversity among the progenitor sources.
GATA transcription factor family members GATA1 and GATA2 play crucial roles in the regulation of lineage-restricted genes during erythroid differentiation. GATA1 is indispensable for survival and terminal differentiation of erythroid, megakaryocytic and eosinophilic progenitors, whereas GATA2 regulates proliferation and maintenance of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Expression levels of GATA1 and GATA2 are primarily regulated at the transcriptional level through auto- and reciprocal regulatory networks formed by these GATA factors. The dynamic and strictly controlled change of expression from GATA2 to GATA1 during erythropoiesis has been referred to as GATA factor switching, which plays a crucial role in erythropoiesis. The regulatory network comprising GATA1 and GATA2 gives rise to the stage-specific changes in Gata1 and Gata2 gene expression during erythroid differentiation, which ensures specific expression of early and late erythroid genes at each stage. Recent studies have also shed light on the genome-wide binding profiles of GATA1 and GATA2, and the significance of epigenetic modification of Gata1 gene during erythroid differentiation. This review summarizes the current understanding of network regulation underlying stage-dependent Gata1 and Gata2 gene expressions and the functional contribution of these GATA factors in erythroid differentiation.
The unremitting demand to replenish differentiated cells in tissues requires efficient mechanisms to generate and regulate stem and progenitor cells. Although master regulatory transcription factors, including GATA binding protein-2 (GATA-2), have crucial roles in these mechanisms, how such factors are controlled in developmentally dynamic systems is poorly understood. Previously, we described five dispersed Gata2 locus sequences, termed the -77, -3.9, -2.8, -1.8, and +9.5 GATA switch sites, which contain evolutionarily conserved GATA motifs occupied by GATA-2 and GATA-1 in hematopoietic precursors and erythroid cells, respectively. Despite common attributes of transcriptional enhancers, targeted deletions of the -2.8, -1.8, and +9.5 sites revealed distinct and unpredictable contributions to Gata2 expression and hematopoiesis. Herein, we describe the targeted deletion of the -3.9 site and mechanistically compare the -3.9 site with other GATA switch sites. The -3.9(-/-) mice were viable and exhibited normal Gata2 expression and steady-state hematopoiesis in the embryo and adult. We established a Gata2 repression/reactivation assay, which revealed unique +9.5 site activity to mediate GATA factor-dependent chromatin structural transitions. Loss-of-function analyses provided evidence for a mechanism in which a mediator of long-range transcriptional control [LIM domain binding 1 (LDB1)] and a chromatin remodeler [Brahma related gene 1 (BRG1)] synergize through the +9.5 site, conferring expression of GATA-2, which is known to promote the genesis and survival of hematopoietic stem cells.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) represent a class of small non-coding regulatory RNAs that play important roles in normal hematopoiesis, including erythropoiesis. Although studies have identified several miRNAs that regulate erythroid commitment and differentiation, we do not understand the mechanism by which the crucial erythroid transcription factors, GATA-1and NF-E2 directly regulate and control differentiation via miRNA pathways. In this study, we identified miR-199b-5p as a key regulator of human erythropoiesis, and its expression was up-regulated during the erythroid differentiation of K562 cells. Furthermore, the increase of miR-199b-5p in erythroid cells occurred in a GATA-1- and NF-E2-dependent manner during erythrocyte maturation. Both GATA-1 and NF-E2 bound upstream of the miR-199b gene locus and activated its transcription. Forced expression of miRNA-199b-5p in K562 cells affected erythroid cell proliferation and maturation. Moreover, we identified c-Kit as a direct target of miR-199b-5p in erythroid cells. Taken together, our results establish a functional link among the erythroid transcription factors GATA-1/NF-E2, miR-199b-5p and c-Kit, and provide new insights into the coupling of transcription and post-transcription regulation in erythroid differentiation.
Key transcriptional regulators of terminal erythropoiesis, such as GATA-binding factor 1 (GATA1) and T-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia protein 1 (TAL1), have been well characterized, but transcription factors and cofactors and their expression modulations have not yet been explored on a global scale. Here, we use global gene expression analysis to identify 28 transcription factors and 19 transcriptional cofactors induced during terminal erythroid differentiation whose promoters are enriched for binding by GATA1 and TAL1. Utilizing protein-protein interaction databases to identify cofactors for each transcription factor, we pinpoint several co-induced pairs, of which E2f2 and its cofactor transcription factor Dp-2 (Tfdp2) were the most highly induced. TFDP2 is a critical cofactor required for proper cell cycle control and gene expression. GATA1 and TAL1 are bound to the regulatory regions of Tfdp2 and upregulate its expression and knockdown of Tfdp2 results in significantly reduced rates of proliferation as well as reduced upregulation of many erythroid-important genes. Loss of Tfdp2 also globally inhibits the normal downregulation of many E2F2 target genes, including those that regulate the cell cycle, causing cells to accumulate in S phase and resulting in increased erythrocyte size. Our findings highlight the importance of TFDP2 in coupling the erythroid cell cycle with terminal differentiation and validate this study as a resource for future work on elucidating the role of diverse transcription factors and coregulators in erythropoiesis.
Chromatin states are highly cell-type-specific, but the underlying mechanisms for the establishment and maintenance of their genome-wide patterns remain poorly understood. Here we present a computational approach for investigation of chromatin-state plasticity. We applied this approach to investigate an ENCODE ChIP-seq dataset profiling the genome-wide distributions of the H3K27me3 mark in 19 human cell lines. We found that the high plasticity regions (HPRs) can be divided into two functionally and mechanistically distinct subsets, which correspond to CpG island (CGI) proximal or distal regions, respectively. Although the CGI proximal HPRs are typically associated with continuous variation across different cell-types, the distal HPRs are associated with binary-like variations. We developed a computational approach to predict putative cell-type-specific modulators of H3K27me3 patterns and validated the predictions by comparing with public ChIP-seq data. Furthermore, we applied this approach to investigate mechanisms for poised enhancer establishment in primary human erythroid precursors. Importantly, we predicted and experimentally validated that the principal hematopoietic regulator T-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia-1 (TAL1) is involved in regulating H3K27me3 variations in collaboration with the transcription factor growth factor independent 1B (GFI1B), providing fresh insights into the context-specific role of TAL1 in erythropoiesis. Our approach is generally applicable to investigate the regulatory mechanisms of epigenetic pathways in establishing cellular identity.
Interferon (IFN)-γ is a proinflammatory cytokine that is linked to erythropoiesis inhibition and may contribute to anemia. However, the mechanism of IFN-γ-inhibited erythropoiesis is unknown. Activin A, a member of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-β superfamily, induces the erythropoiesis of hematopoietic progenitor cells. In this study, a luciferase reporter assay showed that IFN-γ suppressed activin A-induced ζ-globin promoter activation in K562 erythroblast cells in a dose-dependent manner. Activin A reversed the suppressive effect of IFN-γ on the luciferase activity of ζ-globin promoter in a dose-dependent manner. IFN-γ also suppressed the activation of activin A-induced α-globin promoter. IFN-γ reduced the mRNA expression of α-globin, ζ-globin, NF-E2p45, and GATA-1 induced by activin A. The results also showed that IFN-γ induced c-Jun expression when NF-κBp65 and c-Jun bound to two AP-1-binding sites on the c-Jun promoter. The luciferase activity of α-globin and ζ-globin promoters were enhanced by wild-type c-Jun and eliminated by dominant-negative (DN) c-Jun. The suppressive effects of IFN-γ on the mRNA expression of α-globin and ζ-globin were absent in cells expressing DN c-Jun. The ability of NF-E2 to enhance activin A-induced ζ-globin promoter activation decreased when c-Jun was present, and IFN-γ treatment further enhanced the decreasing effect of c-Jun. Chromatin immunoprecipitation revealed that NF-E2p45 bound to the upstream regulatory element (HS-40) of the α-globin gene cluster in response to activin A, whereas c-Jun eliminated this binding. These results suggest that IFN-γ modulates NF-κB/c-Jun to antagonize activin A-mediated NF-E2 transcriptional activity on globin gene expression.
Obesity is characterized as an excess accumulation of body fat resulting from a positive energy balance. It is the major risk factor for type 2 diabetes (T2D). The evidence for familial aggregation of obesity and its associated metabolic diseases is substantial. To date, about 150 genetic loci identified in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are linked with obesity and T2D, each accounting for only a small proportion of the predicted heritability. However, the percentage of overall trait variance explained by these associated loci is modest (~5-10% for T2D, ~2% for BMI). The lack of powerful genetic associations suggests that heritability is not entirely attributable to gene variations. Some of the familial aggregation as well as many of the effects of environmental exposures, may reflect epigenetic processes. This review summarizes our current knowledge on the genetic basis to individual risk of obesity and T2D, and explores the potential role of epigenetic contribution.
Elucidation of the genetic pathways that control red blood cell development has been a central goal of erythropoiesis research over the past decade. Notably, data from several recent studies have provided new insights into the regulation of erythroid gene transcription. Transcription profiling demonstrates that erythropoiesis is mainly controlled by a small group of lineage-restricted transcription factors [Gata binding protein 1 (Gata1), T cell acute lymphocytic leukemia 1 protein (Tal1), and Erythroid Kruppel-like factor (EKLF; henceforth referred to as Klf1)]. Binding-site mapping using ChIP-Seq indicates that most DNA-bound Gata1 and Tal1 proteins are contained within higher order complexes (Ldb1 complexes) that include the nuclear adapters Ldb1 and Lmo2. Ldb1 complexes regulate Klf1, and Ldb1 complex-binding sites frequently colocalize with Klf1 at erythroid genes and cis-regulatory elements, indicating strong functional synergy between Gata1, Tal1, and Klf1. Together with new data demonstrating that Ldb1 can mediate long-range promoter-enhancer interactions, these findings provide a foundation for the first comprehensive models of the global regulation of erythroid gene transcription.
The MED1 subunit of the Mediator transcriptional coregulator complex coactivates GATA1 and induces erythropoiesis. Here, we show the dual mechanism of GATA1- and MED1-mediated transcription. MED1 expression levels in K562 erythroleukemia cells paralleled the levels of GATA1-targeted gene transcription and erythroid differentiation. An N-terminal fragment of MED1, MED1(1-602), which is incapable of interacting with GATA1, enhanced GATA1-targeted gene transcription and erythroid differentiation, and introduction of MED1(1-602) into Med1(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) partially rescued GATA1-mediated transcription. The C-terminal zinc-finger domain of GATA1 interacts with the MED1(1-602)-interacting coactivator CCAR1, CoCoA and MED1(681-715). CCAR1 and CoCoA synergistically enhanced GATA1-mediated transcription from the γ-globin promoter in MEFs. Recombinant GATA1, CCAR1, CoCoA and MED1(1-602) formed a complex in vitro, and GATA1, CCAR1, CoCoA and MED1 were recruited to the γ-globin promoter in K562 cells during erythroid differentiation. Therefore, in addition to the direct interaction between GATA1 and MED1, CoCoA and CCAR1 appear to relay the GATA1 signal to MED1, and multiple modes of the GATA1-MED1 axis may help to fine-tune GATA1 function during GATA1-mediated homeostasis events.
Ferritin is best known as the key molecule in intracellular iron storage, and is involved in several metabolic processes such as cell proliferation, differentiation and neoplastic transformation. We have recently demonstrated that the shRNA silencing of the ferritin heavy subunit (FHC) in a melanoma cell line is accompanied by a consistent modification of gene expression pattern leading to a reduced potential in terms of proliferation, invasiveness, and adhesion ability of the silenced cells. In this study we sought to define the repertoire of genes whose expression might be affected by FHC during the hemin-induced differentiation of the erythromyeloid cell line K562. To this aim, gene expression profiling was performed in four different sets of cells: i) wild type K562; ii) sh-RNA FHC-silenced K562; iii) hemin-treated wild-type K562; and iv) hemin-treated FHC-silenced K562. Statistical analysis of the gene expression data, performed by two-factor ANOVA, identified three distinct classes of transcripts: a) Class 1, including 657 mRNAs whose expression is modified exclusively during hemin-induced differentiation of K562 cells, independently from the FHC relative amounts; b) Class 2, containing a set of 70 mRNAs which are consistently modified by hemin and FHC-silencing; and c) Class 3, including 128 transcripts modified by FHC-silencing but not by hemin. Our data indicate that FHC may function as a modulator of gene expression during erythroid differentiation and add new findings to the knowledge of the complex gene network modulated during erythroid differentiation.
Our previous studies showed that some nuclear proteins that were expressed especially during terminal differentiation of erythroid cells might interact directly or indirectly with HS2 sequence to form the HS2-protein complexes and thus play an important role in the globin gene regulation and erythroid differentiation. Monoclonal antibodies against the nuclear proteins of terminal differentiated erythroid cells, including intermediate and late erythroblasts of human fetal liver and hemin induced K562 cells, were prepared by hybridoma technique. The monoclonal antibodies were used to screen lambda-gtll human cDNA expression library of fetal liver in order to obtain the relevant cDNA clones. By the analysis of their cDNA clones and the identification of the proteins' functions, the regulation mechanism of the HS2 binding proteins might be better understood. Two cDNA clones (GenBank accession number AF040247 and AF040248 respectively) were obtained and one of them owns a full length and the other encodes a protein characterized by a leucine-zipper domain. Both of them were expressed differentially in K562 cells and hemin-induced K562 cells. The evidence suggested that both of them were involved in erythroid differentiation. We investigated the expression pattern ofEDRF1 andEDRF2 by RT-PCR technique. The results of RT-PCR suggested that EDRF1 and EDRF2 might play a critical role in early stage of organ development and histological differentiation. EDRF1 and EDRF2 might start the program of erythroid development, and also regulate the development of erythroid tissue and the expression of globin gene at different stage of the development.
Our previous studies showed that EDRF1 influenced expression of alpha-globin mRNA and synthesis of hemoglobin in K562 cells and modulated self-renewal of K562 cells. To illuminate the function of EDRF1 in K562 cells, sense and antisense EDRF1 constructs were prepared and transfected into K562 cells. By using microarray and dot blot assay, 60 cytokine receptors and some oncogenes sharing important functions in cell proliferation and differentiation were investigated. The results of this study demonstrated that IL-6 receptor, GM-CSF receptor, c-Jun/c-Fos, c-Myc and c-kit genes were regulated by antisense EDRF1 expression. The regulation was confirmed by RNA blot assay. GATA-1 mRNA expression was modulated by EDRF1 gene transfection. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay suggested that the DNA-binding activity of GATA-1 was remarkably inhibited in K562 cells expressing EDRF1 antisense gene. DNA binding activity of NF-E2 was at the same level as control experiment. Therefore EDRF1 may play a role in erythroid proliferation and differentiation by affecting the interaction between GATA-1 and its cis-elements.
Erythroid differentiation depends on the establishment of specific patterns of gene expression. Hypersensitive site 2 (HS2, serving as a major enhancer of globin genes)-binding proteins may be involved in its natural open chromosomal environment formation. Previously we prepared monoclonal antibodies against HS2-binding nuclear proteins of terminal differentiated erythroid cells. By utilizing the monoclonal antibodies, we screened lambda-gt11 human fetal liver cDNA expression library and obtained one cDNA clone, which was named erythroid differentiation related gene (EDRF1, Genbank accession number AF040247), encompassing an entire open reading frame. We investigated the expression pattern of EDRF1 by RT-PCR technique. And a clue to the function of EDRF1 has been found from confirmation of high levels of EDRF1 mRNA in differentiated K562 and human fetal liver tissue. To illuminate the function of EDRF1 in K562 cells, sense and antisense EDRF1 constructs were prepared and transfected into K562 cells. alpha-globin mRNA was down-regulated and EpoR (erythropoietin receptor) mRNA expression was increased in antisense transfected cells. Cells transfected with sense construct grew more slowly than control cells suggested by [(3)H] thimidine incorporation experiments. Suppression of K562 proliferation was accompanied by increased spontaneous hemoglobin synthesis demonstrated by spectrometry. K562 cells transfected with sense construct exhibited reduced clongenicity compared with control cells in methycellulose culture. These data provided the evidence that EDRF1 can influence globin expression and hemoglobin synthesis in K562 cells and modulated self-renewal in K562 cells.
To observe the differentiation-inducing properties of the novel erythroid differentiation related gene EDRF1, and demonstrate its functioning pathway involved in regulation of alpha- and gamma-globin gene expression.
EDRF1 sense and antisense constructs were transfected into HEL cells, then the expression of globin and erythropoietin receptor gene was identified by Northern blot analysis. RT-PCR and electrophoresis mobility shift assay (EMSA) were carried out to monitor the expression and DNA-binding activity of erythroid specific transcription factor GATA-1 and NF-E2.
In HEL cells with transfection of sense expression carrier, the experssion of EDRF1 mRNA was upregulated. In HEL cells with transfection of antisense expression carrier, the experession of EDRF1 mRNA was downregulated. In HEL cells with overexpression of EDRF1, production of alpha-globin was increased. In antisense EDRF1 overexpressed HEL cells, significant loss of alpha- and gamma-globin mRNA synthesis was observed. The expression of erythropoietin receptor was unchanged in HEL cells transfected with EDRF1 sense and antisense expression carriers. No significant change was found in expression of transcription factors GATA-1 and NF-E2 in HEL cells transfected with empty carrier, sense expression carrier, and antisense expression carrier. However, the transcription activity of GATA-1 was severely impaired. Expression of erythropoietin receptor gene was not influenced by EDRF1 gene overexpression.
EDRF1 regulates alpha- and gamma-globin gene synthesis by modulating DNA-binding activity of GATA-1 transcription factor. Overexpression and underexpression of EDRF1 do not significantly regulate the expression of GATA-1 and NF-E2 mRNA. Monitoring the EPOR signal pathway is not the mechanism by which EDRF1 influences the differentiation of erythrocyte.
To further characterize the differentiation inducing properties of EDRF1 and demonstrate its functional pathway involved in regulation of globin gene expression.
By transfecting EDRF1 sense and antisense constructs into HEL cells, we identified the expression of globin and erythropoietin receptor genes by Northern blot analysis. RT-PCR and EMSA (electrophoresis mobility shift assay) were performed to monitor the expression and DNA-binding activity of erythroid specific transcription factors GATA-1 and NF-E2.
It was shown that when EDRF1 was overexpressed, production of alpha-globin increased. In antisense EDRF1, overexpression of HEL cells, significant loss of alpha-, gamma-globin mRNA synthesis was observed. The transcription of endogenous GATA-1 and NF-E2 mRNA expression were maintained at the same levels compared with control experiments. However, the transcription activity of GATA-1 was severely impaired. Expression of erythropoietin receptor gene was not influenced by EDRF1 gene overexpression.
The results suggested that EDRF1 regulated alpha- and gamma-globin gene synthesis by modulating DNA-binding activity of GATA-1 transcription factor.
SLP-76 (SH2 domain-containing leukocyte protein of 76 kDa) is an adaptor protein that is essential for T cell development and T cell receptor (TCR) signaling activation. Previous studies have identified an important negative feedback regulation of SLP-76 by HPK1 (hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1; MAP4K1)-induced Ser-376 phosphorylation. Ser-376 phosphorylation of SLP-76 mediates 14-3-3 binding, resulting in the attenuation of SLP-76 activation and downstream signaling; however, the underlying mechanism of this action remains unknown. Here, we report that phosphorylated SLP-76 is ubiquitinated and targeted for proteasomal degradation during TCR signaling. SLP-76 ubiquitination is mediated by Ser-376 phosphorylation. Furthermore, Lys-30 is identified as a ubiquitination site of SLP-76. Loss of Lys-30 ubiquitination of SLP-76 results in enhanced anti-CD3 antibody-induced ERK and JNK activation. These results reveal a novel regulation mechanism of SLP-76 by ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of activated SLP-76, which is mediated by Ser-376 phosphorylation, leading to down-regulation of TCR signaling.
Programmed cell death 4 (Pdcd4) is a novel tumor suppressor, whose expression is frequently down-regulated in several types of cancers. In the present study, we demonstrated that Pdcd4 knockdown up-regulates MAP kinase kinase kinase kinase 1 (MAP4K1) expression and increases phosphorylation of c-Jun. Over-expression of c-Myc in HEK293 cells increases the levels of MAP4K1, MAP4K1 promoter activity, and phospho-c-Jun. Mutation analysis showed that the c-Myc binding site at -536bp (relative to the initiation ATG) of map4k1 promoter responds to c-Myc regulation. In addition, chromatin immunoprecipitation demonstrated that c-Myc directly binds to map4k1 promoter at this site. Down-regulation of c-Myc reverses MAP4K1 expression and AP-1 activation in Pdcd4 knockdown cells. Moreover, over-expression of dominant negative Tcf4 decreases expression of c-Myc and MAP4K1, JNK activation, and AP-1 dependent transcription. Thus, activation of β-catenin/Tcf dependent transcription in Pdcd4 knockdown cells up-regulates MAP4K1 expression and AP-1 activity via c-Myc. The study presented here further reveals in detail the mechanism of how Pdcd4 inhibits tumor cell invasion and provides a functional connection between β-catenin/Tcf and AP-1 dependent transcription.
Recent clinical trials aimed at improved treatment of AML by administration of vitamin D derivatives showed unremarkable results, suggesting development of vitamin D resistance in patients' AML blasts. Since mechanisms of vitamin D resistance are not clear, we studied 40AF cells, a subline of HL60 cells that can proliferate in the presence of 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D₃ (1,25D). We found that mRNA and protein levels of HPK1, an upstream MAP4 kinase, are dramatically increased in 40AF cells, and HPK1 protein is further increased when the 1,25D resistance of 40AF cells is partially reversed by the addition of carnosic acid and p38MAPK inhibitor SB202190 (DCS cocktail). Knockdown of HPK1 reduces 1,25D/DCS-induced differentiation of both 1,25D-sensitive HL60 and U937 cells and 1,25D-resistant 40AF cells, but the effect of HPK1 knockdown on differentiation-associated G 1 arrest is more apparent in the resistant than the sensitive cells. To explain why 40AF and the intrinsically vitamin D-resistant KG-1a cells can proliferate in the presence of vitamin D, we found that the cleaved HPK1 fragment (HPK1-C) level is high in 40AF and KG-1a cells, but when differentiation is induced by DCS, HPK1-C decreases while full-length (FL)-HPK1 increases. Accordingly, inhibition of proteolysis with the pan-caspase inhibitor Q-VD-OPh reduced HPK1 cleavage and enhanced DCS-induced differentiation of 40AF cells. The results indicate that FL-HPK1 is a positive regulator of vitamin D-induced differentiation in AML cells, but the cleaved HPK1 fragment inhibits differentiation. Thus, high HPK1 cleavage activity contributes to vitamin D resistance, and HPK1 has a dual role in AML cell differentiation.
The c-Jun amino-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway seems to play important roles in the pathogenesis of several tumors, but its significance in extramammary Paget disease (EMPD) has not been investigated yet. The purpose of the study was to investigate the potential contribution of the JNK-associated molecules, such as hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1), mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-related protein kinase kinase kinase1 (MEKK1), transforming growth factor-β activated kinase 1 (TAK1), and phosphomitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4 (p-MKK4) to the development of EMPD. Thirty-five paraffin-embedded EMPD specimens were subjected to immunohistochemical staining for HPK1, MEKK1, TAK1, and p-MKK4. All the 35 EMPD, including 13 dermal invasive EMPD and 2 lymph node metastasis, showed cytoplasmic overexpression of HPK1, MEKK1, and p-MKK4. The expression (%positive cells) of HPK1, MEKK1, and p-MKK4 in EMPD (92.3% ± 8.6%, 92.9% ± 8.6%, and 92.7% ± 7.4%, respectively) were significantly higher than in normal eccrine sweat gland cells (51.6% ± 10.4%, 44.7% ± 11.7%, 0% ± 0%). In addition, the expression of HPK1-, MEKK1-, and p-MKK4 in invasive EMPD was significantly higher than in noninvasive EMPD. Meanwhile, the expression of TAK1 was basically low and no significantly different between EMPD and normal controls. In conclusion, these results indicate that JNK pathway may play a role in the pathogenesis of EMPD.
Hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1) is a hematopoietic cell-restricted member of the Ste20 serine/threonine kinase super family. We recently reported that HPK1 is involved in c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling pathway by sequential activation of MLK3-MKK7-JNK3 after cerebral ischemia. Here, we used 4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl) pyrazolo [3,4-d] pyrimidine (PP2) and MK801 to investigate the events upstream of HPK1 in ischemic brain injury. Immunoprecipitation and immunoblot results showed that PP2 and MK801 significantly decreased the activation of Src, HPK1, MLK3, JNK3 and c-Jun, respectively, during ischemia/reperfusion. Histology and TUNEL staining showed PP2 or MK801 protects against neuron death after brain ischemia. We speculate that this unique signaling pathway through the tyrosine phosphorylation of HPK1 promotes ischemic brain injury by activated Src via N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor and, ultimately, the activation of the MLK3-MKK7-JNK3 pathway after cerebral ischemia.
Ral GTPase activity is a crucial cell-autonomous factor supporting tumor initiation and progression. To decipher pathways impacted by Ral, we have generated null and hypomorph alleles of the Drosophila melanogaster Ral gene. Ral null animals were not viable. Reduced Ral expression in cells of the sensory organ lineage had no effect on cell division but led to postmitotic cell-specific apoptosis. Genetic epistasis and immunofluorescence in differentiating sensory organs suggested that Ral activity suppresses c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation and induces p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase activation. HPK1/GCK-like kinase (HGK), a MAP kinase kinase kinase kinase that can drive JNK activation, was found as an exocyst-associated protein in vivo. The exocyst is a Ral effector, and the epistasis between mutants of Ral and of msn, the fly ortholog of HGK, suggest the functional relevance of an exocyst/HGK interaction. Genetic analysis also showed that the exocyst is required for the execution of Ral function in apoptosis. We conclude that in Drosophila Ral counters apoptotic programs to support cell fate determination by acting as a negative regulator of JNK activity and a positive activator of p38 MAP kinase. We propose that the exocyst complex is Ral executioner in the JNK pathway and that a cascade from Ral to the exocyst to HGK would be a molecular basis of Ral action on JNK.
Programmed cell death 4 (Pdcd4) suppresses neoplastic transformation by inhibiting the activation of c-Jun and consequently AP-1-dependent transcription. We report that Pdcd4 blocks c-Jun activation by inhibiting the expression of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 1 (MAP4K1)/hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1, a kinase upstream of Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). cDNA microarray analysis of Pdcd4-overexpressing RKO human colon carcinoma cells revealed MAP4K1 as the sole target of Pdcd4 on the JNK activation pathway. Cotransfection of a MAP4K1 promoter-reporter with Pdcd4 demonstrated inhibition of transcription from the MAP4K1 promoter. Ectopic expression of Pdcd4 in metastatic RKO cells suppressed invasion. MAP4K1 activity is functionally significant in invasion, as overexpression of a dominant negative MAP4K1 (dnMAP4K1) mutant in RKO cells inhibited not only c-Jun activation but also invasion. Overexpression of a MAP4K1 cDNA in Pdcd4-transfected cells rescued the kinase activity of JNK. Thus, Pdcd4 suppresses tumor progression in human colon carcinoma cells by the novel mechanism of down-regulating MAP4K1 transcription, with consequent inhibition of c-Jun activation and AP-1-dependent transcription.
Bam32 is an adaptor protein recruited to the plasma membrane upon B cell receptor (BCR) crosslinking in a phosphoinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-dependent manner; however, its physiologic function is unclear. To determine its physiologic function, we produced Bam32-deficient mice. Bam32(-/-) B cells develop normally but have impaired T-independent antibody responses in vivo and diminished responses to BCR crosslinking in vitro. Biochemical analysis revealed that Bam32 acts in a novel pathway leading from the BCR to MAPK/ERK Kinases (MEK1/2), MAPK/ERK Kinase Kinase-1 (MEKK1), extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and c-jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK), but not p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38). This pathway appears to be initiated by hematopoietic progenitor kinase-1 (HPK1), which interacts directly with Bam32, and differs from all previously characterized BCR signaling pathways in that it is required for normal BCR-mediated proliferation but not for B cell survival.
Hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1) is a member of germinal center kinases that is predominantly expressed in hematopoietic cells and transiently activated by T-cell receptor (TCR) triggering. We show here that HPK1 supports apoptosis of T cells. When HPK1 was overexpressed in murine CD4(+) T cells, a substantial increase was observed in spontaneous and TCR/CD3-mediated apoptosis as well as in Fas ligand (FasL) expression. In H2O2-treated EL-4 thymoma cells, which show an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) and apoptosis, overexpression of HPK1 enhanced ROS-mediated apoptosis, whereas expression of HPK1 antisense (AS) RNA impaired apoptosis. HPK1 expression also led to a sustained increase in c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activity, suggesting that JNK activation contributes to the HPK1-mediated apoptosis in H2O2-treated EL-4 cells. Under the same conditions, a rapid cleavage of HPK1 was observed, and overexpression of N- and C-terminal cleavage products in CD4(+) T cells resulted in, similar to full-length HPK1, an increase in apoptosis. In agreement with published data, we show that the C-terminal portion of HPK1 suppresses IkappaBalpha degradation, thereby inhibiting nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB activation. These findings suggest that by inhibiting the antiapoptotic action of NF-kappaB and inducing the proapoptotic activity of JNK, OHPK1 supports apoptosis in T cells.
CrkII, a cellular homolog of v-crk, belongs to a family of adaptor proteins that play a central role in signal transduction cascades. We demonstrate that CrkII interacts directly with c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1 (JNK1). A proline-rich sequence of JNK1 is critical for the interaction of the kinase with the N-terminal Src homology 3 (SH3) domain of CrkII. JNK1 is localized with CrkII in membrane ruffles of Crk-overexpressing cells in a Rac1-dependent manner. A JNK1 mutant (K340A) that fails to interact with CrkII is defective in Rac/epidermal growth factor-induced activation, but remains responsive to UVC irradiation. Furthermore, CrkII recruits JNK1 to a p130Cas multiprotein complex where it may be activated through a hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1- and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4-dependent pathway. Together, the results presented here argue for a new mechanism of regulation of the JNK pathway through the CrkII-p130Cas adaptor complex.
The serine/threonine kinase HPK1 is a member of the germinal center kinase (GCK) family that has been implicated in the regulation of MAP kinase pathways. Here, we demonstrate the involvement of HPK1 in antigen receptor signaling. Engagement of the TCR or the BCR resulted in a marked induction of HPK1 catalytic activity. Subsequent analysis revealed that Src and Syk/ZAP-70 tyrosine kinases and the adaptor proteins LAT, SLP-76, BLNK, Grb2, and Grap are involved in HPK1 activation. Overexpression of HPK1 inhibited TCR activation of AP-1 and ERK2, whereas the kinase-inactive mutant of HPK1 potentiated these responses. Neither form of HPK1 affected PMA or v-Ras activation of AP-1 and ERK2. Thus, HPK1 is a negative regulator of the TCR-induced AP-1 response pathway.
Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta)-activated kinase (TAK1) is known for its involvement in TGF-beta signaling and its ability to activate the p38-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. This report shows that TAK1 is also a strong activator of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Both the wild-type and a constitutively active mutant of TAK1 stimulated JNK in transient transfection assays. Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4 (MKK4)/stress-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (SEK1), a dual-specificity kinase that phosphorylates and activates JNK, synergized with TAK1 in activating JNK. Conversely, a dominant-negative (MKK4/SEK1 mutant inhibited TAK1-induced JNK activation. A kinasedefective mutant of TAK1 effectively suppressed hematopoietic progenitor kinase-1 (HPK1)-induced JNK activity but had little effect on germinal center kinase activation of JNK. There are two additional MAPK kinase kinases, MEKK1 and mixed lineage kinase 3 (MLK3), that are also downstream of HPK1 and upstream of MKK4/SEK mutant. However, because the dominant-negative mutants of MEKK1 and MLK3 did not inhibit TAK1-induced JNK activity, we conclude that activation of JNK1 by TAK1 is independent of MEKK1 and MLK3. In addition to TAK1, TGF-beta also stimulated JNK activity. Taken together, these results identify TAK1 as a regulator in the HPK1 --> TAK1 --> MKK4/SEK1 --> JNK kinase cascade and indicate the involvement of JNK in the TGF-beta signaling pathway. Our results also suggest the potential roles of TAK1 not only in the TGF-beta pathway but also in the other HPK1/JNK1-mediated pathways.
The c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), or stress-activated protein kinase plays a crucial role in cellular responses stimulated by environmental stress and proinflammatory cytokines. However, the mechanisms that lead to the activation of the JNK pathway have not been elucidated. We have isolated a cDNA encoding a novel protein kinase that has significant sequence similarities to human germinal center kinase (GCK) and human hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1. The novel GCK-like kinase (GLK) has a nucleotide sequence that encodes an ORF of 885 amino acids with 11 kinase subdomains. Endogenous GLK could be activated by UV radiation and proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha. When transiently expressed in 293 cells, GLK specifically activated the JNK, but not the p42/44(MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase or p38 kinase signaling pathways. Interestingly, deletion of amino acids 353-835 in the putative C-terminal regulatory region, or mutation of Lys-35 in the putative ATP-binding domain, markedly reduced the ability of GLK to activate JNK. This result indicates that both kinase activity and the C-terminal region of GLK are required for maximal activation of JNK. Furthermore, GLK-induced JNK activation could be inhibited by a dominant-negative mutant of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 1 (MEKK1) or mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4/SAPK/ERK kinase 1 (SEK1), suggesting that GLK may function upstream of MEKK1 in the JNK signaling pathway.
The c-Jun amino-terminal kinases (JNKs)/stress-activated protein kinases (SAPKs) play a crucial role in stress responses in mammalian cells. The mechanism underlying this pathway in the hematopoietic system is unclear, but it is a key in understanding the molecular basis of blood cell differentiation. We have cloned a novel protein kinase, termed hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1), that is expressed predominantly in hematopoietic cells, including early progenitor cells. HPK1 is related distantly to the p21(Cdc42/Rac1)-activated kinase (PAK) and yeast STE20 implicated in the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade. Expression of HPK1 activates JNK1 specifically, and it elevates strongly AP-1-mediated transcriptional activity in vivo. HPK1 binds and phosphorylates MEKK1 directly, whereas JNK1 activation by HPK1 is inhibited by a dominant-negative MEKK1 or MKK4/SEK mutant. Interestingly, unlike PAK65, HPK1 does not contain the small GTPase Rac1/Cdc42-binding domain and does not bind to either Rac1 or Cdc42, suggesting that HPK1. activation is Rac1/Cdc42-independent. These results indicate that HPK1 is a novel functional activator of the JNK/SAPK signaling pathway.
The Hippo pathway plays a central role in tissue homoeostasis, and its dysregulation contributes to tumorigenesis. Core components of the Hippo pathway include a kinase cascade of MST1/2 and LATS1/2 and the transcription co-activators YAP/TAZ. In response to stimulation, LATS1/2 phosphorylate and inhibit YAP/TAZ, the main effectors of the Hippo pathway. Accumulating evidence suggests that MST1/2 are not required for the regulation of YAP/TAZ. Here we show that deletion of LATS1/2 but not MST1/2 abolishes YAP/TAZ phosphorylation. We have identified MAP4K family members-Drosophila Happyhour homologues MAP4K1/2/3 and Misshapen homologues MAP4K4/6/7-as direct LATS1/2-activating kinases. Combined deletion of MAP4Ks and MST1/2, but neither alone, suppresses phosphorylation of LATS1/2 and YAP/TAZ in response to a wide range of signals. Our results demonstrate that MAP4Ks act in parallel to and are partially redundant with MST1/2 in the regulation of LATS1/2 and YAP/TAZ, and establish MAP4Ks as components of the expanded Hippo pathway.
Hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1), a mammalian Ste20-related protein kinase, is a potent stimulator of the stress-activated protein kinases (SAPKs/JNKs). Here we report activation of NFkappaB transcription factors by HPK1 that was independent of SAPK/JNK activation. Overexpression of a dominant-negative SEK1 significantly inhibited SAPK/JNK activation, whereas NFkappaB stimulation by HPK1 remained unaffected. Furthermore, activation of NFkappaB required the presence of full-length, kinase-active HPK1, whereas the isolated kinase domain of HPK1 was sufficient for activation of SAPK/JNK. We also demonstrate that overexpression of a dominant-negative IKKbeta blocks HPK1-mediated NFkappaB activation suggesting that HPK1 acts upstream of the IkappaB kinase complex. In apoptotic myeloid progenitor cells HPK1 was cleaved at a DDVD motif resulting in the release of the kinase domain and a C-terminal part. Although expression of the isolated HPK1 kinase domain led to SAPK/JNK activation, the C-terminal part inhibited NFkappaB activation. This dominant-negative effect was not only restricted to HPK1-mediated but also to NIK- and tumor necrosis factor alpha-mediated NFkappaB activation, suggesting an impairment of the IkappaB kinase complex. Thus HPK1 activates both the SAPK/JNK and NFkappaB pathway in hematopoietic cells but is converted into an inhibitor of NFkappaB activation in apoptotic cells.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 1 (MAP4K1, also called hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1, HPK1) is a serine/threonine kinase. As a member of the MAP4K family, MAP4K1 is closely associated with various adaptor proteins such as caspase recruitment domain family member 11 (CARD11), hematopoietic cell-specific protein 1 (HS1), HPK1-interacting protein of 55 kD (HIP-55), growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (GRB2) family, the linker for activated T-cells (LAT), SH2 domain containing leukocyte protein of 76 kD (SLP-76) family, homologues of the v-crk oncogene product (CRK) family, the B-cell adaptor molecule of 32 kD (BAM32), etc. It plays important roles in many immunoreactions, such as regulation of cellular proliferation and apoptosis, inhibition of TCR/BCR signaling and T/B/dendritic cells-mediated immune responses. Thus, MAP4K1 is involved in autoimmune diseases and plays a key role in tumor and inflammatory reaction.
Prolonged or uncontrolled B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling is associated with autoimmunity. We previously demonstrated a role for actin in BCR signal attenuation. This study reveals that actin-binding protein 1 (Abp1/HIP-55/SH3P7) is a negative regulator of BCR signaling and links actin to negative regulatory pathways of the BCR. In both Abp1(-/-) and bone marrow chimeric mice, in which only B cells lack Abp1 expression, the number of spontaneous germinal center and marginal zone B cells and the level of autoantibody are significantly increased. Serum levels of T-independent antibody responses and total antibody are elevated, whereas T-dependent antibody responses are markedly reduced and fail to undergo affinity maturation. Upon activation, surface BCR clustering is enhanced and B-cell contraction delayed in Abp1(-/-) B cells, concurrent with slow but persistent increases in F-actin at BCR signalosomes. Furthermore, BCR signaling is enhanced in Abp1(-/-) B cells compared with wild-type B cells, including Ca(2+) flux and phosphorylation of B-cell linker protein, the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase MEK1/2, and ERK, coinciding with reductions in recruitment of the inhibitory signaling molecules hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 and SH2-containing inositol 5-phosphatase to BCR signalosomes. Our results indicate that Abp1 negatively regulates BCR signaling by coupling actin remodeling to B-cell contraction and activation of inhibitory signaling molecules, which contributes to the regulation of peripheral B-cell development and antibody responses.
HIP-55 (hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 [HPK1]-interacting protein of 55 kDa) is the mammalian homologue of the yeast Abp1p. It contains a C-terminal Src homology 3 domain and an N-terminal actin depolymerization factor (ADF-H/C) domain. HIP-55 appears to be critical for organ development and immune response and is important for the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton through its interactions with F-actin and various cytoskeletal and cell signaling proteins. However, the function of HIP-55 in tumors remains unknown. Here, we found that HIP-55 is up-regulated or down-regulated in several types of tumor tissues in patients. Of these, lung cancer tissues had the highest expression of HIP-55. To gain full insight into the function of HIP-55 in lung cancer, microarray assay was performed using Affymetrix U133 Plus 2.0 expression arrays in both HIP-55 knockdown and scramble control A549 cells. The ingenuity pathway analysis tool was utilized to construct biological networks and analyze functions that might be associated with HIP-55. Functional analysis strongly suggested that HIP-55 may be involved in cancer cell survival and cell death, which was then confirmed by further experimentation. Experimental results showed that downregulation of HIP-55 decreased the viability and increased the apoptosis of A549 cells treated with the anticancer agent etoposide. Our data suggested that HIP-55 may be a newly discovered regulatory node in the growth signaling network and a new target for therapeutic interventions in proliferative disorders.
In the present study, hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1)-interacting protein of 55 kDa (HIP-55) protein was over-expressed in HEK293 cells, which was genetically attached with 6x His tag. The protein was purified by nickel-charged resin and was then subjected to tryptic digestion. The phosphorylated peptides within the HIP-55 protein were enriched by TiO2 affinity chromatography, followed by mass spectrometry analysis. Fourteen phosphorylation sites along the primary structure of HIP-55 protein were identified, most of which had not been previously reported. Our results indicate that bio-mass spectrometry coupled with manual interpretation can be used to successfully identify the phosphorylation modification in HIP-55 protein in HEK293 cells.
HPK1, a member of mammalian Ste20-like serine/threonine kinases, is lost in >95% pancreatic cancer through proteasome-mediated degradation. However, the mechanism of HPK1 loss has not been defined. The aims of this study are to identify the ubiquitin ligase and to examine the mechanisms that targets HPK1 degradation. We found that the CUL7/Fbxw8 ubiquitin ligase targeted HPK1 for degradation via the 26 S proteasome. The ubiquitination of HPK1 required its kinase activity and autophosphorylation. Wild-type protein phosphatase 4 (PP4), but not the phosphatase-dead PP4 mutant, PP4-RL, inhibits the interaction of Fbxw8 with HPK1 and Fbxw8-mediated ubiquitination of HPK1. In addition, we showed that Thr-355 of HPK1 is a key PP4 dephosphorylation site, through which CUL7/Fbxw8 ubiquitin ligase and PP4 regulates HPK1 stability. Knockdown of Fbxw8 restores endogenous HPK1 protein expression and inhibits cell proliferation of pancreatic cancer cells. Our study demonstrated that targeted degradation of HPK1 by the CUL7/Fbxw8 ubiquitin ligase constitutes a negative-feedback loop to restrain the activity of HPK1 and that CUL7/Fbxw8 ubiquitin ligase promotes pancreatic cancer cell proliferation. CUL7/Fbxw8 ubiquitin ligase-mediated HPK1 degradation revealed a direct link and novel role of CUL7/Fbxw8 ubiquitin ligase in the MAPK pathway, which plays a critical role in cell proliferation and differentiation.
In this issue of Blood, Jakob et al report that hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1) participates during signaling of neutrophil recruitment by acting as a regulator of the adhesiveness of the b2-integrin lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 (LFA-1) during acute inflammation.
Recruitment of polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) to sites of acute inflammation critically depends on β2 integrins (CD11/CD18). Recently, the mammalian actin-binding protein 1 (mAbp1) was identified as an important adaptor protein regulating PMN trafficking downstream of β2 integrins. Here, we show that mAbp1 constitutively co-immunoprecipitated with hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1) in neutrophil-like differentiated HL-60 (dHL-60) cells. HPK1 was enriched at the lamellipodium of polarized dHL-60 cells, where it colocalized with mAbp1 and actin. Functional analysis of PMNs from HPK1-deficient mice showed that HPK1 was critical for CXCL1-induced lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 (LFA-1)-mediated PMN adhesion to ICAM-1 under flow conditions. Accordingly, CXCL1-mediated induction of high-affinity LFA-1 required HPK1, but macrophage antigen 1 (Mac-1) affinity regulation was independent of HPK1. Intravital microscopy of the mouse cremaster muscle confirmed the defect of CXCL1-induced leukocyte adhesion in HPK1-deficient mice. Furthermore, β2 integrin-mediated post-adhesion processes-adhesion strengthening, spreading, and directed mechanotactic crawling of PMNs under flow conditions-involved HPK1 in vitro and in vivo. Upon intrascrotal administration of tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), PMN adhesion and extravasation were severely compromised in HPK1-deficient mice. In summary, our results indicate that HPK1 is critically involved in LFA-1-mediated PMN trafficking during acute inflammation.
SH3 domains are probably the most abundant molecular-recognition modules of the proteome. A common feature of these domains is their interaction with ligand proteins containing Pro-rich sequences. Crystal and NMR structures of SH3 domains complexes with Pro-rich peptides show that the peptide ligands are bound over a range of up to seven residues in a PPII helix conformation. Short proline-rich peptides usually adopt little or no ordered secondary structure before binding interactions, and consequently their association with the SH3 domain is characterized by unfavorable binding entropy due to a loss of rotational freedom on forming the PPII helix. With the aim to stabilize the PPII helix conformation into the proline-rich decapeptide PPPLPPKPKF (P2), we replaced some proline residues either with the 4(R)-4-fluoro-L-proline (FPro) or the 4(R)-4-hydroxy-L-proline (Hyp). The interactions of P2 analogues with the SH3 domain of cortactin (SH3(m-cort)) were analyzed by circular dichroism spectroscopy, while CD thermal transition experiments have been used to determine their propensity to adopt a PPII helix conformation. Results show that the introduction of three residues of Hyp efficiently stabilizes the PPII helix conformation, while it does not improve the affinity towards the SH3 domain, suggesting that additional forces, e.g., electrostatic interactions, are involved in the SH3(m-cort) substrate recognition.
Caspase function is known to be essential for cell death by apoptosis, but it is now increasingly recognized that these proteases also play important roles in other cellular events. Here we report for the first time that inhibition of cellular caspase activity can induce differentiation of AML blasts, and can enhance vitamin D-induced cell differentiation of these cells. This was studied in blasts obtained from nine patients with AML and one patient with CML by ex vivo culture in the presence of Q-VD-OPh (QVD), a pan caspase inhibitor. Cell differentiation was manifested by the expression of markers of monocytic differentiation CD11b and CD14. Differentiation induced by 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25D) or its analogs PRI-1906 and PRI-2191 was enhanced by QVD to a varying degree, depending on the subtype of the leukemia. QVD and 1,25D-induced differentiation was accompanied by increased signaling by Hematopoietic Progenitor Kinase 1(HPK1), and the expression of transcription factors known to be involved in monocytic differentiation was increased. Although the magnitude and nature of these changes were not invariable, it is clear that caspase inhibitors warrant attention as components of differentiation therapy of leukemia, perhaps in combination with derivatives of vitamin D.
Identifying the appropriate drug targets for the development of a novel anti-tumor immunotherapy is one of the most risky steps in the drug development cycle. We have identified a hematopoietic cell-restricted serine/threonine kinase, hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1), as a possible target for therapeutic intervention. Targeted disruption of HPK1 alleles confers T cells with an elevated Th1 cytokine production in response to TCR engagement. HPK1 (-/-) T cells proliferate more rapidly than the haplotype-matched wild-type counterpart and are resistant to prostaglandin E2 (PGE(2))-mediated suppression. Most strikingly, mice that received adoptive transfer of HPK1 (-/-) T cells became resistant to lung tumor growth. Also, the loss of HPK1 from dendritic cells (DCs) endows them with superior antigen presentation ability, enabling HPK1 (-/-) DCs to elicit a more potent anti-tumor immune response when used as cancer vaccine. It is probable that blocking the HPK1 kinase activity with a small molecule inhibitor may activate the superior anti-tumor activity of both cell types, resulting in a synergistic amplification of anti-tumor potential. Given that HPK1 is not expressed in any major organs, it is less likely that an inhibitor of HPK1 kinase activity would cause any serious side effects.
Hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1) is a Ste20-like serine/threonine kinase that suppresses immune responses and autoimmunity. B cell receptor (BCR) signaling activates HPK1 by inducing BLNK/HPK1 interaction. Whether HPK1 can reciprocally regulate BLNK during BCR signaling is unknown. Here, we show that HPK1-deficient B cells display hyper-proliferation and hyper-activation of IκB kinase and MAPKs (ERK, p38, and JNK) upon the ligation of BCR. HPK1 attenuates BCR-induced cell activation via inducing BLNK threonine 152 phosphorylation, which mediates BLNK/14-3-3 binding. Furthermore, threonine 152-phosphorylated BLNK is ubiquitinated at lysine residues 37, 38, and 42, leading to attenuation of MAPK and IκB kinase activation in B cells during BCR signaling. These results reveal a novel negative feedback regulation of BCR signaling by HPK1-mediated phosphorylation, ubiquitination, and subsequent degradation of the activated BLNK.
Antigen recognition within immunological synapses triggers and sustains T cell activation by nucleating protein microclusters that gather T cell receptors (TCRs), kinases, and adaptors. Dissipation of these microclusters results in signal termination, but how this process is regulated is unclear. In this paper, we reveal that release of the adaptors SLP76 and GADS from signaling microclusters is induced by the serine/threonine protein kinase HPK1 and that phosphorylation of GADS plays a major role in this process. We found that HPK1 was recruited into microclusters and triggered their dissipation by inducing the phosphorylation of a threonine-containing motif of GADS, together with the previously described serine phosphorylation of SLP76. These events induced the cooperative binding of 14-3-3 proteins to SLP76-GADS complexes, leading to their uncoupling from the transmembrane adaptor LAT and consequently reducing microcluster persistence and activation-induced gene transcription. These results demonstrate that serine/threonine phosphorylation of multiple TCR-proximal effectors controls the stability of signaling microclusters, thereby determining the intensity of T cell responses.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disease characterized by T cell overactivation and B cell hyper-stimulation. Hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1, also called MAP4K1) negatively regulates T cell-mediated immune responses. However, the role of HPK1 and the mechanisms that regulate HPK1 expression in SLE remain poorly understood. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) microarray data, we identified markedly increased histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) enrichment at the HPK1 promoter of SLE CD4+ T cells relative to controls, and confirmed this observation using ChIP and real-time PCR experiments. We further found that HPK1 mRNA and protein levels were significantly decreased in CD4+ T cells of patients with SLE, and that this decrease was not caused by exposure to standard SLE medications. Down-regulating HPK1 in healthy CD4+ T cells significantly accelerated T cell proliferation and production of IFNγ and IgG. Consistent with these findings, overexpressing HPK1 in SLE CD4+ T cells caused a significant decrease in T cell reactivity. In addition, we observed a striking decrease in jumonji domain containing 3 (JMJD3) binding, but no marked change in enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) binding, at the HPK1 promoter region in SLE CD4+ T cells compared to healthy controls. SiRNA knock down of JMJD3 in healthy CD4+ T cells led to decreased JMJD3 binding and increased H3K27me3 enrichment at the HPK1 promoter region, thus inhibiting the expression of HPK1. Concordantly, plasmid-induced overexpression of JMJD3 in SLE CD4+ T cells led to increased JMJD3 binding, decreased H3K27me3 enrichment, and up-regulated HPK1 expression. Our results show for the first time that inhibited HPK1 expression in SLE CD4+ T cells is associated with loss of JMJD3 binding and increased H3K27me3 enrichment at the HPK1 promoter, contributing to T cell overactivation and B cell overstimulation in SLE. These findings suggest that HPK1 may serve as a novel target for effective SLE therapy.
Numerous microRNAs (miRNAs) play crucial roles in cancer development. In this study, we report that hsa-miR-96 is expressed at higher levels in human bladder urothelial carcinomas compared to normal tissues. We found that hsa-miR-96 increased invasion and differentiation of human bladder T24 cells and promoted their growth. Down‑regulation of hsa-miR-96 significantly affected the phenotype of bladder cancer T24 cells. The mRNA and protein levels of insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1) and MAP4K1 were significantly reduced in cells transfected with the hsa-miR-96 inhibitor when compared with levels in cells transfected with the empty plasmid vector or the negative control miRNA inhibitor. Altogether, these results suggest that hsa-miR-96 may affect the growth of bladder cancer cells by up-regulating IRS1 and MAP4K1 levels, functioning as a promising diagnostic marker in human bladder urothelial carcinomas.
The hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1) signals into MAPK and NFκB pathways downstream of immunoreceptors, but enigmatically is a negative regulator of leukocytes. Here, we report a novel role for HPK1 in regulating the activation of the adhesion molecule leukocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1). Upon TCR stimulation, mediated by binding of adhesion and degranulation promoting adaptor protein (ADAP) to SLP-76, a ternary complex composed of ADAP/55-kDa src kinase associated phosphoprotein (SKAP-55) and RIAM translocates to the membrane and causes membrane recruitment of the active small GTPase Ras-related protein 1 (Rap1). Active Rap1, via its binding to RapL (regulator for cell adhesion and polarization enriched in lymphoid tissues), mediates LFA-1 integrin activation. We show here that HPK1, which also binds SLP-76, compete with ADAP for SLP-76 binding. In addition, HPK1 dampens Rap1 activation, resulting in decreased LFA-1 activity. Analysis of HPK1-deficient T cells revealed increased ADAP recruitment to SLP-76 and elevated Rap1 activation in those cells, leading to increased adhesion to ICAM-1 and cell spreading. Altogether, these results describe a novel function for HPK1 in linking TCR signaling to cell adhesion regulation and provide a mechanistic explanation for the negative regulatory role of HPK1 in T-cell biology.
In Drosophila and mammals, the canonical Hippo kinase cascade is mediated by Hpo/Mst acting through the intermediary kinase Wts/Lats to phosphorylate the transcriptional coactivator Yki/YAP/TAZ. Despite recent reports linking Yki/YAP/TAZ activity to the actin cytoskeleton, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood and/or controversial. Using Drosophila imaginal discs as an in vivo model, we show that Wts, but not Hpo, is genetically indispensable for cytoskeleton-mediated subcellular localization of Yki. Through a systematic screen, we identify the Ste-20 kinase Happyhour (Hppy) and its mammalian counterpart MAP4K1/2/3/5 as an alternative kinase that phosphorylates the hydrophobic motif of Wts/Lats in a similar manner as Hpo/Mst. Consistent with their redundant function as activating kinases of Wts/Lats, combined loss of Hpo/Mst and Hppy/MAP4K abolishes cytoskeleton-mediated regulation of Yki/YAP subcellular localization, as well as YAP cytoplasmic translocation induced by contact inhibition. These Hpo/Mst-like kinases provide an expanded view of the Hippo kinase cascade in development and physiology.
The purpose of this study is to identify protein kinase genes that modulate oxaliplatin cytotoxicity in vitro and evaluate the roles of these genes in predicting clinical outcomes in CRC patients receiving oxaliplatin-based adjuvant chemotherapy. A high-throughput RNAi screening targeting 626 human kinase genes was performed to identify kinase genes whose inhibition potentiates oxaliplatin sensitivity in CRC cells. The associations between copy numbers of the candidate genes and recurrence-free survival and overall survival were analyzed in 142 stage III CRC patients receiving first-line oxaliplatin-based adjuvant chemotherapy who were enrolled from two independent hospitals. HT-RNAi screening identified 40 kinase genes whose inhibition potentiated oxaliplatin cytotoxicity in DLD1 cells. The relative copy number (RCN) of MAP4K1 and CDKL4 were associated with increased risks of both recurrence and death. Moreover, significant genes-based risk score and the ratios of RCN of different genes can further categorize patients into subgroups with distinctly differing outcomes. The estimated AUC for the prediction models including clinical variables plus kinase biomarkers was 0.77 for the recurrence and 0.82 for the survival models. The copy numbers of MAP4K1 and CDKL4 can predict clinical outcomes in CRC patients treated with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy.
T-cell recognition of minor histocompatibility antigens (MiHA) plays an important role in the graft-versus-tumor (GVT) effect of allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT). However, the number of MiHA identified to date remains limited, making clinical application of MiHA reactive T-cell infusion difficult. This study represents the first attempt of genome-wide prediction of MiHA, coupled to the isolation of T-cell populations that react with these antigens. In this unbiased high-throughput MiHA screen, both the possibilities and pitfalls of this approach were investigated. First, 973 polymorphic peptides expressed by hematopoietic stem cells were predicted and screened for HLA-A2 binding. Subsequently a set of 333 high affinity HLA-A2 ligands was identified and post transplantation samples from allo-SCT patients were screened for T-cell reactivity by a combination of pMHC-tetramer-based enrichment and multi-color flow cytometry. Using this approach, 71 peptide-reactive T-cell populations were generated. The isolation of a T-cell line specifically recognizing target cells expressing the MAP4K1(IMA) antigen demonstrates that identification of MiHA through this approach is in principle feasible. However, with the exception of the known MiHA HMHA1, none of the other T-cell populations that were generated demonstrated recognition of endogenously MiHA expressing target cells, even though recognition of peptide-loaded targets was often apparent. Collectively these results demonstrate the technical feasibility of high-throughput analysis of antigen-specific T-cell responses in small patient samples. However, the high-sensitivity of this approach requires the use of potential epitope sets that are not solely based on MHC binding, to prevent the frequent detection of T-cell responses that lack biological relevance.
Medulloblastoma (MB), the most common malignant brain tumour in children, is characterised by a high risk of leptomeningeal dissemination. But little is known about the molecular mechanisms that promote cancer cell migration in MB. Aberrant expression of miR-21 is recognised to be causatively linked to metastasis in a variety of human neoplasms including brain tumours; however its function in MB is still unknown. In this study we investigated the expression level and the role of miR-21 in MB cell migration. miR-21 was found to be up-regulated, compared to normal cerebellum, in 29/29 MB primary samples and 6/6 MB-derived cell lines. Inverse correlation was observed between miR-21 expression and the metastasis suppressor PDCD4, while miR-21 repression increased the release of PDCD4 protein, suggesting negative regulation of PDCD4 by miR-21 in MB cells. Anti-miR-21 decreased protein expression of the tumour cell invasion mediators MAP4K1 and JNK, which are also known to be negatively regulated by PDCD4, and down-regulated integrin protein that is essential for MB leptomeningeal dissemination. Moreover miR-21 knockdown in MB cells increased the expression of two eminent negative modulators of cancer cell migration, E-Cadherin and TIMP2 proteins that are known to be positively regulated by PDCD4. Finally and importantly, suppression of miR-21 decreased the motility of MB cells and reduced their migration across basement membranes in vitro. Together, these compelling data propose miR-21 pathway as a novel mechanism impacting MB cell dissemination and raises the possibility that curability of selected MB may be improved by pharmaceutical strategies directed towards microRNA-21.
The expression of carcino-embryonic antigen by colorectal cancer is an example of oncogenic activation of embryonic gene expression. Hypothesizing that oncogenesis-recapitulating-ontogenesis may represent a broad programmatic commitment, we compared gene expression patterns of human colorectal cancers (CRCs) and mouse colon tumor models to those of mouse colon development embryonic days 13.5-18.5.
We report here that 39 colon tumors from four independent mouse models and 100 human CRCs encompassing all clinical stages shared a striking recapitulation of embryonic colon gene expression. Compared to normal adult colon, all mouse and human tumors over-expressed a large cluster of genes highly enriched for functional association to the control of cell cycle progression, proliferation, and migration, including those encoding MYC, AKT2, PLK1 and SPARC. Mouse tumors positive for nuclear beta-catenin shifted the shared embryonic pattern to that of early development. Human and mouse tumors differed from normal embryonic colon by their loss of expression modules enriched for tumor suppressors (EDNRB, HSPE, KIT and LSP1). Human CRC adenocarcinomas lost an additional suppressor module (IGFBP4, MAP4K1, PDGFRA, STAB1 and WNT4). Many human tumor samples also gained expression of a coordinately regulated module associated with advanced malignancy (ABCC1, FOXO3A, LIF, PIK3R1, PRNP, TNC, TIMP3 and VEGF).
Cross-species, developmental, and multi-model gene expression patterning comparisons provide an integrated and versatile framework for definition of transcriptional programs associated with oncogenesis. This approach also provides a general method for identifying pattern-specific biomarkers and therapeutic targets. This delineation and categorization of developmental and non-developmental activator and suppressor gene modules can thus facilitate the formulation of sophisticated hypotheses to evaluate potential synergistic effects of targeting within- and between-modules for next-generation combinatorial therapeutics and improved mouse models.
Hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1 or MAP4K1) is a hematopoietic-specific mammalian STE20-like protein serine/threonine kinase, comprised of a STE20-like kinase domain in its N-terminus, four proline-rich motifs, a caspase cleavage site, and a distal C-terminal Citron homology domain. HPK1 is involved in many cellular signaling cascades that include MAPK signaling, antigen receptor signaling, apoptosis, growth factor signaling, and cytokine signaling. HPK1 binds many adaptor proteins including members of the Grb2 family, Nck family, Crk family, SLP-76 family, and actin-binding adaptors like HIP-55. HPK1 tyrosine phosphorylation and kinase activation depend on the presence of adaptor proteins. Adaptor proteins are required not only for linking HPK1 to cell surface receptors like the EGFR, but also for downstream gene transcription like NFAT, AP-1 and IL-2. The HPK1 association with Crk, CrkL, and HIP-55 mediate HPK1-dependent c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation, while the association of HPK1 with SLP-76, Gads, CrkL, Grb2, and Grap affect T- and B-cell dependent gene transcription. Interestingly, HPK1 has been implicated in both increasing and decreasing NFAT, AP-1, and IL-2 gene transcription in T-cells where adaptor proteins play a key role. Lastly, HPK1 will phosphorylate Crk and CrkL, in vitro, which presents a novel possibility for the regulation of adaptor proteins and downstream signaling events.
Interactions with the bone marrow microenvironment are essential for leukemia survival and disease progression. We developed an imaging-based RNAi platform to identify protective cues from bone marrow derived mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) that promote survival of primary acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cells. Using a candidate gene approach, we detected distinct responses of individual ALL cases to RNA interference with stromal targets. The strongest effects were observed when interfering with solute carrier family 3 member 2 (SLC3A2) expression, which forms the cystine transporter xc- when associated with SLC7A11. Import of cystine and metabolism to cysteine by stromal cells provides the limiting substrate to generate and maintain glutathione in ALL. This metabolic interaction reduces oxidative stress in ALL cells that depend on stromal xc-. Indeed, cysteine depletion using cysteine dioxygenase resulted in leukemia cell death. Thus, functional evaluation of intercellular interactions between leukemia cells and their microenvironment identifies a selective dependency of ALL cells on stromal metabolism for a relevant subgroup of cases, providing new opportunities to develop more personalized approaches to leukemia treatment.
A diverse range of lipid oxidation products detected in oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL) and atherosclerotic lesions are capable of eliciting biological responses in vascular cells. We performed DNA microarray experiments to explore novel responses of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) to oxLDL and its components.
cDNA microarray analysis showed that oxLDL, lysophosphatidylcholine (LysoPC), 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, and oxysterols altered gene expression specifically, but some genes were commonly induced in HUVECs. Solute carrier family 3 member 2 and family 7 member 5, encoding the heavy chain of the cell surface antigen 4F2 (4F2hc) and the L-type amino acid transporter 1 (LAT1), respectively, were induced by oxLDL and many oxidation products. LAT1 requires 4F2hc to form a heterodimeric functional complex to transport neutral amino acids into the cell. LysoPC increased membrane protein levels of LAT1 confirmed by Western blot analysis and also uptake of L-[(14)C]leucine, which was inhibited by a competitive inhibitor for LAT1. The release of interleukin 6 (IL-6) and IL-8 was increased in LysoPC-treated cells and was attenuated by the LAT1 inhibitor.
These findings suggest that an increase in uptake of neutral amino acids induced by LysoPC results in enhancement of inflammatory responses of endothelial cells.
Upon their recognition of antigens presented by the MHC, T cell proliferation is vital for clonal expansion and the acquisition of effector functions, which are essential for mounting adaptive immune responses. The CD98 heavy chain (CD98hc, Slc3a2) plays a crucial role in the proliferation of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, although it is unclear if CD98hc directly regulates the T cell effector functions that are not linked with T cell proliferation in vivo. Here, we demonstrate that CD98hc is required for both CD4+ T cell proliferation and Th1 functional differentiation. T cell-specific deletion of CD98hc did not affect T cell development in the thymus. CD98hc-deficient CD4+ T cells proliferated in vivo more slowly as compared with control T cells. C57BL/6 mice lacking CD98hc in their CD4+ T cells could not control Leishmania major infections due to lowered IFN-γ production, even with massive CD4+ T cell proliferation. CD98hc-deficient CD4+ T cells exhibited lower IFN-γ production compared with wild-type T cells, even when comparing IFN-γ expression in cells that underwent the same number of cell divisions. Therefore, these data indicate that CD98hc is required for CD4+ T cell expansion and functional Th1 differentiation in vivo, and suggest that CD98hc might be a good target for treating Th1-mediated immune disorders.
Pepper, a daily-used seasoning for promoting appetite, is widely used in folk medicine for treating gastrointestinal diseases. Piperine is the major alkaloid in pepper and possesses a wide range of pharmacological activities. However, the mechanism for linking metabolic and medicinal activities of piperine remains unknown. Here we report that piperine robustly boosts mTORC1 activity by recruiting more system L1 amino acid transporter (SLC7A5/SLC3A2) to the cell membrane, thus promoting amino acid metabolism. Piperine-induced increase of mTORC1 activity in resident peritoneal macrophages (pMΦs) is correlated with enhanced production of IL-6 and TNF-α upon LPS stimulation. Such an enhancement of cytokine production could be abrogated by inhibitors of the mTOR signaling pathway, indicating mTOR's action in this process. Moreover, piperine treatment protected resident pMΦs from bacterium-induced apoptosis and disappearance, and increased their bacterial phagocytic ability. Consequently, piperine administration conferred mice resistance against bacterial infection and even sepsis. Our data highlight that piperine has the capacity to metabolically reprogram peritoneal resident macrophages to fortify their innate functions against bacterial infection.
LAT1 (SLC7A5) and CD98 (SLC3A2) constitute a heterodimeric transmembrane protein complex that catalyzes amino acid transport. Whether one or both subunits are competent for transport is still unclear. The present work aims to solve this question using different experimental strategies. Firstly, LAT1 and CD98 were immuno-detected in protein extracts from SiHa cells. Under oxidizing conditions, i.e., without addition of SH (thiol) reducing agent DTE, both proteins were revealed as a 120kDa major band. Upon DTE treatment separated bands, corresponding to LAT1(35kDa) or CD98(80kDa), were detected. LAT1 function was evaluated in intact cells as BCH sensitive [(3)H]His transport inhibited by hydrophobic amino acids. Antiport of [(3)H]His was measured in proteoliposomes reconstituted with SiHa cell extract in presence of internal His. Transport was increased by DTE. Hydrophobic amino acids were best inhibitors in addition to hydrophilic Tyr, Gln, Asn and Lys. Cys, Tyr and Gln, included in the intraliposomal space, were transported in antiport with external [(3)H]His. Similar experiments were performed in proteoliposomes reconstituted with the recombinant purified hLAT1. Results overlapping those obtained with native protein were achieved. Lower transport of [(3)H]Leu and [(3)H]Gln with respect to [(3)H]His was detected. Kinetic asymmetry was found with external Km for His lower than internal one. No transport was detected in proteoliposomes reconstituted with recombinant hCD98. The experimental data demonstrate that LAT1 is the sole transport competent subunit of the heterodimer. This conclusion has important outcome for following studies on functional characterization and identification of specific inhibitors with potential application in human therapy.
The objectives of this study were to (1) identify changes in plasma and mammary intracellular amino acid (AA) profiles in dairy cows treated with growth hormone (GH), and (2) evaluate the expression of mammary gland genes involved in the transport of AA identified in (1). Eight non-pregnant (n = 4 per group) lactating dairy cows were treated with a single subcutaneous injection of either a slow-release formulation of commercially available GH (Lactotropin 500 mg) or physiological saline solution. Six days after treatment, cows were milked and blood collected from the jugular vein for the analysis of free AA in the plasma. Cows were euthanized and mammary tissue harvested. Treatment with GH increased milk, protein, fat and lactose yields, with no effect on dry matter intake. Plasma concentrations of lysine and group I AA decreased significantly, and arginine, methionine, tyrosine and arginine-family AA tended to decrease in GH-treated cows. Concentrations of intracellular glycine, serine and glutamate increased significantly, with a trend for decreased arginine observed in the mammary gland of GH-treated cows. A trend for increased concentrations of intracellular total AA, NEAA and arginine-family AA were observed in the mammary gland of GH-treated cows. Variance in the concentration of plasma methionine, tyrosine, valine, alanine, ornithine, BCAA, EAA was significantly different between treatments. Variance in the concentration of intracellular lysine, valine, glutamine, EAA and group II was significantly different between treatments. AA changes were associated with increased mRNA abundance of the mammary gland AA transporter SLC3A2. We propose that these changes occur to support increased milk protein and fatty acid production in the mammary gland of GH-treated cows via potential mTOR pathway signaling.
More than 380,000 new cases of bladder cancer are diagnosed worldwide, accounting for ∼150,200 deaths each year. To discover potential biomarkers of bladder cancer, we employed a strategy combining laser microdissection, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation labeling, and liquid chromatography-tandem MS (LC-MS/MS) analysis to profile proteomic changes in fresh-frozen bladder tumor specimens. Cellular proteins from four pairs of surgically resected primary bladder cancer tumor and adjacent nontumorous tissue were extracted for use in two batches of isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation experiments, which identified a total of 3220 proteins. A DAVID (database for annotation, visualization and integrated discovery) analysis of dysregulated proteins revealed that the three top-ranking biological processes were extracellular matrix organization, extracellular structure organization, and oxidation-reduction. Biological processes including response to organic substances, response to metal ions, and response to inorganic substances were highlighted by up-expressed proteins in bladder cancer. Seven differentially expressed proteins were selected as potential bladder cancer biomarkers for further verification. Immunohistochemical analyses showed significantly elevated levels of three proteins-SLC3A2, STMN1, and TAGLN2-in tumor cells compared with noncancerous bladder epithelial cells, and suggested that TAGLN2 could be a useful tumor tissue marker for diagnosis (AUC = 0.999) and evaluating lymph node metastasis in bladder cancer patients. ELISA results revealed significantly increased urinary levels of both STMN1 and TAGLN2 in bladder cancer subgroups compared with control groups. In comparisons with age-matched hernia urine specimens, urinary TAGLN2 in bladder cancer samples showed the largest fold change (7.13-fold), with an area-under-the-curve value of 0.70 (p < 0.001, n = 205). Overall, TAGLN2 showed the most significant overexpression in individual bladder cancer tissues and urine specimens, and thus represents a potential biomarker for noninvasive screening for bladder cancer. Our findings highlight the value of bladder tissue proteome in providing valuable information for future validation studies of potential biomarkers in urothelial carcinoma.
Defects in colonic epithelial barrier defenses are associated with ulcerative colitis (UC). The proteins that regulate bacterial clearance in the colonic epithelium have not been completely identified. The Drosophila chromosome-associated protein D3 (dCAP-D3) regulates responses to bacterial infection. We examined whether CAP-D3 promotes bacterial clearance in human colonic epithelium.
Clearance of Salmonella or adherent-invasive Escherichia coli LF82 was assessed by gentamycin protection assays in HT-29 and Caco-2 cells expressing small hairpin RNAs against CAP-D3. We used immunoblot assays to measure levels of CAP-D3 in colonic epithelial cells from patients with UC and healthy individuals (controls). RNA sequencing identified genes activated by CAP-D3. We analyzed the roles of CAP-D3 target genes in bacterial clearance using gentamycin protection and immunofluorescence assays and studies with pharmacologic inhibitors.
CAP-D3 expression was reduced in colonic epithelial cells from patients with active UC. Reduced CAP-D3 expression decreased autophagy and impaired intracellular bacterial clearance by HT-29 and Caco-2 colonic epithelial cells. Lower levels of CAP-D3 increased transcription of genes encoding SLC7A5 and SLC3A2, the products of which heterodimerize to form an amino acid transporter in HT-29 cells after bacterial infection; levels of SLC7A5-SLC3A2 were increased in tissues from patients with UC compared with controls. Reduced CAP-D3 in HT-29 cells resulted in earlier recruitment of SLC7A5 to Salmonella-containing vacuoles, increased activity of mTORC1, and increased survival of bacteria. Inhibition of SLC7A5-SLC3A2 or mTORC1 activity rescued the bacterial clearance defects of CAP-D3-deficient cells.
CAP-D3 down-regulates transcription of genes that encode amino acid transporters (SLC7A5 and SLC3A2) to promote bacterial autophagy by colon epithelial cells. Levels of CAP-D3 protein are reduced in patients with active UC; strategies to increase its levels might restore mucosal homeostasis to patients with active UC.
Burkitt lymphoma (BL) is the most common non-Hodgkin lymphoma in children worldwide and the most common paediatric malignancy in sub-Saharan Africa. The endemic (eBL) and sporadic (sBL) variants have distinct epidemiologic and virologic characteristics. Although gene expression studies have defined the transcriptional profiles of both, their proteomic signatures have not been studied.
We compared the proteomic expression profiles using differential mass spectrometry-based isotope tag for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) analysis of a cell line representing Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)+ eBL, EBV+ and EBV- sBL, and EBV+/- normal B cells from healthy donors.
In total, there were 144 differentially expressed proteins with a statistically significant false discovery rate (FDR) of ⩽0.2. Results revealed over-expression of specific proteins with well-established links to lymphomagenesis such as TUBB2C (FDR 0.05), UCHL1 (FDR 0.05) and HSP90AB1 (FDR 0.1). Distinct characteristics based upon the epidemiologic and virologic subtypes of BL were also identified. In sBL, PCNA (FDR 0.05) and SLC3A2 (FDR 0.1) were significantly over-expressed. In eBL, C1QBP (FDR 0.1) and ENO1 (FDR 0.25) were significantly over-expressed. Comparison of EBV+ to EBV- BL cell lines and B cells revealed significant over-expression of DDX3X (FDR 0.1). Proteins were validated using Western blot analysis.
Our results suggest unique signal transduction pathways associated with EBV infection and epidemiological subtype of BL that may contribute to lymphomagenesis. These proteomic findings provide potential diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic links to BL.
O-(2-fluoroethyl)-L-tyrosine (FET) labeled with fluorine-18 is an important and specific tracer for diagnostics of glioblastoma via positron emission tomography (PET). However, the mechanism of its quite specific accumulation in tumor tissue has not been understood so far. In this work we demonstrate that [(3)H]L-tyrosine is primarily transported by the system L transporter LAT1 in human LN229 glioblastoma cells. FET reduced tyrosine transport, suggesting that it shares the same uptake pathway. More importantly, accumulation of FET was significantly reduced after siRNA-mediated downregulation of LAT1. Xenopus laevis oocytes expressing human LAT1 together with the glycoprotein 4F2hc (necessary to pull LAT-1 to the plasma membrane) exhibited a similar accumulation of FET as observed in glioblastoma cells. In contrast, no accumulation was observed in control oocytes, not overexpressing an exogenous transporter. Because LAT1 works exclusively as an exchanger of amino acids, substrates at one side of the membrane stimulate exchange against substrates at the other side. Extracellular FET stimulated the efflux of intracellular [(3)H]L-leucine, demonstrating that FET is indeed an influx substrate for LAT1. However, FET injected into oocytes was not able to stimulate uptake of extracellular [(3)H]L-leucine, indicating that FET is not a good efflux substrate. Our data, therefore, suggest that FET is trapped within cells due to the asymmetry of its intra- and extracellular recognition by LAT1. If also found for other transporters in tumor cells, asymmetric substrate recognition may be further exploited for tumor-specific accumulation of PET-tracers and/or other tumor-related drugs.
CD98hc (SLC3A2) is the heavy chain component of the dimeric transmembrane glycoprotein CD98, which comprises the large neutral amino acid transporter LAT1 (SLC7A5) in cells. Overexpression of CD98hc occurs widely in cancer cells and is associated with poor prognosis clinically, but its exact contributions to tumorigenesis are uncertain. In this study, we showed that genetic deficiency of CD98hc protects against Ras-driven skin carcinogenesis. Deleting CD98hc after tumor induction was also sufficient to cause regression of existing tumors. Investigations into the basis for these effects defined two new functions of CD98hc that contribute to epithelial cancer beyond an intrinsic effect of CD98hc on tumor cell proliferation. First, CD98hc increased the stiffness of the tumor microenvironment. Second, CD98hc amplified the capacity of cells to respond to matrix rigidity, an essential factor in tumor development. Mechanistically, CD98hc mediated this stiffness sensing by increasing Rho kinase (ROCK) activity, resulting in increased transcription mediated by YAP/TAZ, a nuclear relay for mechanical signals. Our results suggest that CD98hc contributes to carcinogenesis by amplifying a positive feedback loop, which increases both extracellular matrix stiffness and resulting cellular responses. This work supports a rationale to explore the use of CD98hc inhibitors as cancer therapeutics.
It has been reported that CD147 and CD98 heavy chain (CD98hc) form a complex on the cell plasma membrane of several cancers; however, whether this complex exists in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells and affects the prognosis of patients remains to be elucidated.
The expression of CD147 and CD98hc was assessed in tissue samples from 241 NSCLC patients and NSCLC cell lines. The correlation between CD147 and CD98hc expression and their association with the prognosis of NSCLC patients were analyzed. We also evaluated the impact of CD147 and CD98hc on the growth of NSCLC cells as well as Akt phosphorylation.
Both CD147 and CD98hc were significantly upregulated in NSCLC cells, and their expression levels were significantly correlated (p < 0.001). Immunoflurenece staining and co-immunoprecipitation demonstrated that CD147 and CD98hc could form a complex on NSCLC cells. Compared with NSCLC patients with CD147-/CD98hc-, those with CD147+/CD98hc+ exhibited a significantly poor overall survival (OS) with a hazard ratio (HR) of 1.92 (p = 0.010), and a significantly increased risk of recurrence with a HR of 1.97 (p = 0.004). Also, we demonstrated that the proliferation of lung cancer cell lines was significantly affected by knockdown and force-expression of the CD147-CD98hc complex. Western blot analysis indicated that the phosphorylation of Akt in NSCLC cells was significantly affected by knockdown and overexpression of either or both CD147 and CD98hc.
Our findings indicate that the CD147-CD98hc complex significantly contributes to poor prognosis of NSCLC patients through promoting cell proliferation via the PI3K/Akt pathway.
Levodopa (L-DOPA) is the naturally occurring precursor amino acid for dopamine and the main therapeutic agent for neurologic disorders due to dopamine depletion, such as Parkinson's disease. l-DOPA absorption in small intestine has been suggested to be mediated by the large neutral amino acids transport machinery, but the identity of the involved transporters is unknown. Clinically, coadministration of l-DOPA and dietary amino acids is avoided to decrease competition for transport in intestine and at the blood-brain barrier. l-DOPA is routinely coadministered with levodopa metabolism inhibitors (dopa-decarboxylase and cathechol-O-methyl transferase inhibitors) that share structural similarity with levodopa. In this systematic study involving Xenopus laevis oocytes and Madin-Darby canine kidney epithelia expression systems and ex vivo preparations from wild-type and knockout mice, we identified the neutral and dibasic amino acids exchanger (antiporter) b(0,+)AT-rBAT (SLC7A9-SLC3A1) as the luminal intestinal l-DOPA transporter. The major luminal cotransporter (symporter) B(0)AT1 (SLC6A19) was not involved in levodopa transport. L-Leucine and L-arginine competed with levodopa across the luminal enterocyte membrane as expected for b(0,+)AT-rBAT substrates, whereas dopa-decarboxylase and cathechol-O-methyl transferase inhibitors had no effect. The presence of amino acids in the basolateral compartment mimicking the postprandial phase increased transepithelial levodopa transport by stimulating basolateral efflux via the antiporter LAT2-4F2 (SLC7A8-SLC3A2). Additionally, the aromatic amino acid uniporter TAT1 (SLC16A10) was shown to play a major role in l-DOPA efflux from intestinal enterocytes. These results identify the molecular mechanisms mediating small intestinal levodopa absorption and suggest strategies for optimization of delivery and absorption of this important prodrug.
Sufficient amino acid transport activity (AAT) is indispensable for appropriate fetal growth. Studies suggest that placental nutrient uptake activity is responsive to both maternal and fetal nutrient demands. We hypothesize that under conditions of limited nutrient availability to the fetus, as often present in preeclampsia, intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR), and insufficient weight-gain during pregnancy, a general adaptive response aimed to increase amino acid transport activity may be observed in the placenta.
A total of 40 placentas from full-term (n = 10) and pre-term (average gestational period = 34.8 weeks, n = 10) normal pregnancies, IUGR (n = 10), and preeclampsia (n = 10) associated pregnancies were looked at by immunohistochemistry followed by relative qualitative scoring to compare expression levels and localization of System L, ASCT2, and mTOR proteins.
Microvillous syncytiotrophoblast (ST) in placenta of pregnancies complicated by IUGR or preeclampsia (PE) showed significant increases in the levels of System L amino acid transport proteins 4F2hc and LAT1 compared to both full-term control and pre-term (early gestation control) pregnancies seperately (p < 0.05). Elevated mTOR protein was uniquely higher in IUGR placentas compared to full-term controls (P = 0.0026). Total cellular ASCT2 transporter protein levels were similar in all groups, however, levels of ASCT2 protein localized to the ST microvillous membrane (MVM) were significantly lower in IUGR compared to both full-term and pre-term pregnancies (P = 0.0006, 0.03, respectively). Additionally, ASCT2 and mTOR protein levels were positively associated with maternal pre-pregnancy BMI (P = 0.046, 0.048, respectively).
There are three important findings based upon the present study. First, in conditions of limited nutrient availability, such as PE or IUGR, there is an overall increase in the level of System L and mTOR protein expression in the ST, suggestive of an adaptive response. Second, a decrease in ASCT2 protein at the ST MVM suggests a post-translational event that may decrease AAT activity in IUGR placentas. Third, a physiological link between transporter expression and pre-pregnancy BMI is suggested based upon a positive association observed with ASCT2 and mTOR expression values.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is characterized by poor prognosis and only a few molecular markers may be potentially used to predict the risk of progression. This study aims to assess the effects of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the CD98 gene on prognosis of NSCLC patients. We genotyped three potential functional SNPs in CD98 gene using Sequenom iPLEX genotyping system in a cohort of 482 NSCLC patients. Multivariate cox proportional hazards model and Kaplan-Meier curve were used for the survival analysis. The variant-containing genotypes of rs1059292 in 5'-flanking region of CD98 gene were significantly associated with an increased risk of death in the multivariate analysis (Hazard ratio [HR], 1.49; 95% confidence interval [95% CI]: 1.04-2.14 in a dominant model). In stratified analysis, the association remained significant in patients with poor differentiation (HR=1.81, 95% CI=1.01-3.25). In addition, rs1059292 also showed a borderline significant association with T stage (OR=1.49; 95% CI: 0.96-2.35) and N stage (OR=1.53; 95% CI: 0.98-2.39). Functional analysis demonstrated that variant genotype of SNP rs1059292 significantly enhanced the transcription activity of CD98 gene promoter. Our data suggest that genetic variation of rs1059292 in CD98 gene may affect clinical outcome of NSCLC in Chinese population.
Amino-acid transporters are necessary for the tumour cell growth and survival, and have a crucial role in the development and invasiveness of cancer cells. But, it remains unclear about the prognostic significance of L-type amino-acid transporter 1 (LAT1), system ASC amino-acid transporter-2 (ASCT2), and xCT expression in patients with tongue cancer. We conducted the clinicopathological study to investigate the protein expression of these amino-acid transporters in tongue cancer.
Eighty-five patients with surgically resected tongue cancer were evaluated. Tumour sections were stained by immunohistochemistry for LAT1, ASCT2, xCT, 4F2hc/CD98hc (4F2hc), Ki-67, and microvessel density (MVD) determined by CD34, and p53.
L-type amino-acid transporter 1 and 4F2hc were highly expressed in 61% (52 out of 85) and 45% (38 out of 47), respectively. ASC amino-acid transporter-2 and xCT were positively expressed in 59% (50 out of 85) and 21% (18 out of 85), respectively. The expression of both LAT1 and ASCT2 was significantly associated with disease staging, lymph-node metastasis, lymphatic permeation, 4F2hc expression and cell proliferation (Ki-67). xCT expression indicated a significant association with advanced stage and tumour factor. By univariate analysis, disease staging, lymphatic permeation, vascular invasion, LAT1, ASCT2, 4F2hc, and Ki-67 had a significant relationship with overall survival. Multivariate analysis confirmed that LAT1 was an independent prognostic factor for predicting poor prognosis.
L-type amino-acid transporter 1 and ASCT2 can serve as a significant prognostic factor for predicting worse outcome after surgical treatment and may have an important role in the development and aggressiveness of tongue cancer.
To identify druggable oncogenic fusions in invasive mucinous adenocarcinoma (IMA) of the lung, a malignant type of lung adenocarcinoma in which KRAS mutations frequently occur.
From an IMA cohort of 90 cases, consisting of 56 cases (62%) with KRAS mutations and 34 cases without (38%), we conducted whole-transcriptome sequencing of 32 IMAs, including 27 cases without KRAS mutations. We used the sequencing data to identify gene fusions, and then performed functional analyses of the fusion gene products.
We identified oncogenic fusions that occurred mutually exclusively with KRAS mutations: CD74-NRG1, SLC3A2-NRG1, EZR-ERBB4, TRIM24-BRAF, and KIAA1468-RET. NRG1 fusions were present in 17.6% (6/34) of KRAS-negative IMAs. The CD74-NRG1 fusion activated HER2:HER3 signaling, whereas the EZR-ERBB4 and TRIM24-BRAF fusions constitutively activated the ERBB4 and BRAF kinases, respectively. Signaling pathway activation and fusion-induced anchorage-independent growth/tumorigenicity of NIH3T3 cells expressing these fusions were suppressed by tyrosine kinase inhibitors approved for clinical use.
Oncogenic fusions act as driver mutations in IMAs without KRAS mutations, and thus represent promising therapeutic targets for the treatment of such IMAs.
Currently, there is no effective treatment for cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), which is the most prevalent in the northeastern part of Thailand. A new molecular target for the treatment of CCA is, therefore, urgently needed. Although L-type amino acid transporter 1 (LAT1) is highly expressed in CCA cells, its role in malignant phenotypes of CCA cells remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the impact of LAT1 on proliferation, migration, and invasion of KKU-M213 cells, the CCA cells derived from Thai patients with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. Results showed that KKU-M213 cells expressed all LAT isoforms (LAT1, LAT2, LAT3 and LAT4). The expressions of LAT1 and its associated protein 4F2hc were highest whereas those of LAT2 and LAT4 were extremely low. Treatment with 2-aminobicyclo-(2,2,1)-heptane-2-carboxylic acid (BCH) reduced L-leucine uptake concomitant with an inhibition of cell motility and, to a lesser extent, on cell proliferation. It also induced a time dependent up-regulation of LAT1 and 4F2hc expressions. Similarly, cell migration and invasion, but not proliferation, were reduced in LAT1 knockdown KKU-M213 cells. In addition, silencing of LAT1 inhibited the expressions of 4F2hc mRNA and protein whereas the expression of microRNA-7, the 4F2hc down-regulator, was increased. Furthermore, the phosphorylation levels of ERK1/2 and p70S6K were reduced after LAT1 knockdown. Collectively, these results suggest that suppression of cell invasion and migration in LAT1 knockdown KKU-M213 cells may be partly mediated through the inhibition of the 4F2hc-signaling pathway by the up-regulation of microRNA-7. Based on this finding, LAT1 may be a potential therapeutic target for treating CCA.
Increasing amino acid availability (via infusion or ingestion) at rest or postexercise enhances amino acid transport into human skeletal muscle. It is unknown whether alterations in amino acid availability, from ingesting different dietary proteins, can enhance amino acid transport rates and amino acid transporter (AAT) mRNA expression. We hypothesized that the prolonged hyperaminoacidemia from ingesting a blend of proteins with different digestion rates postexercise would enhance amino acid transport into muscle and AAT expression compared with the ingestion of a rapidly digested protein. In a double-blind, randomized clinical trial, we studied 16 young adults at rest and after acute resistance exercise coupled with postexercise (1 h) ingestion of either a (soy-dairy) protein blend or whey protein. Phenylalanine net balance and transport rate into skeletal muscle were measured using stable isotopic methods in combination with femoral arteriovenous blood sampling and muscle biopsies obtained at rest and 3 and 5 h postexercise. Phenylalanine transport into muscle and mRNA expression of select AATs [system L amino acid transporter 1/solute-linked carrier (SLC) 7A5, CD98/SLC3A2, system A amino acid transporter 2/SLC38A2, proton-assisted amino acid transporter 1/SLC36A1, cationic amino acid transporter 1/SLC7A1] increased to a similar extent in both groups (P < 0.05). However, the ingestion of the protein blend resulted in a prolonged and positive net phenylalanine balance during postexercise recovery compared with whey protein (P < 0.05). Postexercise myofibrillar protein synthesis increased similarly between groups. We conclude that, while both protein sources enhanced postexercise AAT expression, transport into muscle, and myofibrillar protein synthesis, postexercise ingestion of a protein blend results in a slightly prolonged net amino acid balance across the leg compared with whey protein.
The System L1-type amino acid transporter mediates transport of large neutral amino acids (LNAA) in many mammalian cell-types. LNAA such as leucine are required for full activation of the mTOR-S6K signalling pathway promoting protein synthesis and cell growth. The SLC7A5 (LAT1) catalytic subunit of high-affinity System L1 functions as a glycoprotein-associated heterodimer with the multifunctional protein SLC3A2 (CD98). We generated a floxed Slc7a5 mouse strain which, when crossed with mice expressing Cre driven by a global promoter, produced Slc7a5 heterozygous knockout (Slc7a5+/-) animals with no overt phenotype, although homozygous global knockout of Slc7a5 was embryonically lethal. Muscle-specific (MCK Cre-mediated) Slc7a5 knockout (MS-Slc7a5-KO) mice were used to study the role of intracellular LNAA delivery by the SLC7A5 transporter for mTOR-S6K pathway activation in skeletal muscle. Activation of muscle mTOR-S6K (Thr389 phosphorylation) in vivo by intraperitoneal leucine injection was blunted in homozygous MS-Slc7a5-KO mice relative to wild-type animals. Dietary intake and growth rate were similar for MS-Slc7a5-KO mice and wild-type littermates fed for 10 weeks (to age 120 days) with diets containing 10%, 20% or 30% of protein. In MS-Slc7a5-KO mice, Leu and Ile concentrations in gastrocnemius muscle were reduced by ∼40% as dietary protein content was reduced from 30 to 10%. These changes were associated with >50% decrease in S6K Thr389 phosphorylation in muscles from MS-Slc7a5-KO mice, indicating reduced mTOR-S6K pathway activation, despite no significant differences in lean tissue mass between groups on the same diet. MS-Slc7a5-KO mice on 30% protein diet exhibited mild insulin resistance (e.g. reduced glucose clearance, larger gonadal adipose depots) relative to control animals. Thus, SLC7A5 modulates LNAA-dependent muscle mTOR-S6K signalling in mice, although it appears non-essential (or is sufficiently compensated by e.g. SLC7A8 (LAT2)) for maintenance of normal muscle mass.
Heteromeric amino acid transporters (HATs) are the unique example, known in all kingdoms of life, of solute transporters composed of two subunits linked by a conserved disulfide bridge. In metazoans, the heavy subunit is responsible for the trafficking of the heterodimer to the plasma membrane, and the light subunit is the transporter. HATs are involved in human pathologies such as amino acidurias, tumor growth and invasion, viral infection and cocaine addiction. However structural information about interactions between the heavy and light subunits of HATs is scarce. In this work, transmission electron microscopy and single-particle analysis of purified human 4F2hc/L-type amino acid transporter 2 (LAT2) heterodimers overexpressed in the yeast Pichia pastoris, together with docking analysis and crosslinking experiments, reveal that the extracellular domain of 4F2hc interacts with LAT2, almost completely covering the extracellular face of the transporter. 4F2hc increases the stability of the light subunit LAT2 in detergent-solubilized Pichia membranes, allowing functional reconstitution of the heterodimer into proteoliposomes. Moreover, the extracellular domain of 4F2hc suffices to stabilize solubilized LAT2. The interaction of 4F2hc with LAT2 gives insights into the structural bases for light subunit recognition and the stabilizing role of the ancillary protein in HATs.
CD98 H chain (4F2 Ag, Slc3a2) was discovered as a lymphocyte-activation Ag. Deletion of CD98 H chain in B cells leads to complete failure of B cell proliferation, plasma cell formation, and Ab secretion. In this study, we examined the role of T cell CD98 in cell-mediated immunity and autoimmune disease pathogenesis by specifically deleting it in murine T cells. Deletion of T cell CD98 prevented experimental autoimmune diabetes associated with dramatically reduced T cell clonal expansion. Nevertheless, initial T cell homing to pancreatic islets was unimpaired. In sharp contrast to B cells, CD98-null T cells showed only modestly impaired Ag-driven proliferation and nearly normal homeostatic proliferation. Furthermore, these cells were activated by Ag, leading to cytokine production (CD4) and efficient cytolytic killing of targets (CD8). The integrin-binding domain of CD98 was necessary and sufficient for full clonal expansion, pointing to a role for adhesive signaling in T cell proliferation and autoimmune disease. When we expanded CD98-null T cells in vitro, they adoptively transferred diabetes, establishing that impaired clonal expansion was responsible for protection from disease. Thus, the integrin-binding domain of CD98 is required for Ag-driven T cell clonal expansion in the pathogenesis of an autoimmune disease and may represent a useful therapeutic target.
Glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) is widely distributed throughout various tissues and contributes to insulin-independent basal glucose uptake. Using a split-ubiquitin membrane yeast two-hybrid system, we newly identified 4F2 heavy chain (4F2hc) as a membrane protein interacting with GLUT1. Though 4F2hc reportedly forms heterodimeric complexes between amino acid transporters, such as LAT1 and LAT2, and regulates amino acid uptake, we investigated the effects of 4F2hc on GLUT1 expression and the associated glucose uptake. First, FLAG-tagged 4F2hc and hemagglutinin-tagged GLUT1 were overexpressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells and their association was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation. The green fluorescent protein-tagged 4F2hc and DsRed-tagged GLUT1 showed significant, but incomplete, colocalization at the plasma membrane. In addition, an endogenous association between GLUT1 and 4F2hc was demonstrated using mouse brain tissue and HeLa cells. Interestingly, overexpression of 4F2hc increased the amount of GLUT1 protein in HeLa and HepG2 cells with increased glucose uptake. In contrast, small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated 4F2hc gene suppression markedly reduced GLUT1 protein in both cell types, with reduced glucose uptake. While GLUT1 mRNA levels were not affected by overexpression or gene silencing of 4F2hc, GLUT1 degradation after the addition of cycloheximide was significantly suppressed by 4F2hc overexpression and increased by 4F2hc siRNA treatment. Taken together, these observations indicate that 4F2hc is likely to be involved in GLUT1 stabilization and to contribute to the regulation of not only amino acid but also glucose metabolism.
L-type amino acid transporter 1 (LAT1) is a neutral amino acid transport system and is a major route for the transport of large neutral amino acids, including methionine, through the plasma membrane. LAT1 requires the heavy chain of 4F2 cell surface antigen (4F2hc) for its functional expression. Positron emission tomography (PET) with L-[methyl-(11)C] methionine (MET) provides information about amino acid metabolism in brain tumors. We conducted a clinicopathologic study to elucidate the correlation of LAT1 and 4F2hc expression with MET uptake in patients with newly diagnosed human gliomas. Thirty-three newly diagnosed glioma patients were enrolled in this study. Uptake of MET in the tumor was evaluated with the maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax). Expression of the LAT1, 4F2hc, and CD34, and Ki-67 labeling index of the tumor were analyzed by immunohistochemical staining, and the correlation with the SUVmax in the tumors was examined. Expression of LAT1 and 4F2hc was higher in high-grade gliomas than in low-grade gliomas. The grade of LAT1 immunostaining increased with glioma grade. LAT1 was mainly expressed in the tumor cytoplasm and vascular endothelium and 4F2hc was mainly expressed in the tumor cytoplasm and plasma membrane. Expression of LAT1 but not 4F2hc was significantly correlated with MET SUVmax. Expression of LAT1 in the tumor vascular endothelium is significantly correlated with CD34 positive microvessel density. In conclusion, MET SUVmax correlates with LAT1 expression in the tumor in newly diagnosed gliomas. MET transport may be increased by an increased number of microvessels combined with a higher density or activity of LAT1 in the tumor endothelial cells in high-grade gliomas. Use of MET-PET as a molecular target combined with anti-angiogenesis in glioma therapy should be addressed in future studies.
L-arginine transport is mediated by the cationic/neutral amino acid transport system y+L and cationic amino acid transporters y+/CATs in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). System y+/CATs activity may be rate-limiting for nitric oxide (NO) synthesis, but no reports have demonstrated system y+L involvement in NO synthesis in endothelium. We investigated the role of system y+L in NO synthesis in HUVECs. Transport of 1.5 microM L-arginine was inhibited (P < 0.05) by L-lysine (K(i), 1.4 micro M), L-leucine (K(i), 1.8 micro M) and L-phenylalanine (K(i), 4.1 microM), but was unaltered (P > 0.05) by L-alanine or L-cysteine. The system y+/CATs inhibitor, N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), did not alter 1.5 microM L-arginine transport, but inhibited (92 +/- 3 %) 100 microM L-arginine transport. L-arginine transport in the presence of NEM was saturable (V(max), 0.37 +/- 0.02 pmol (microg protein)(-1) min(-1); K(m), 1.5 +/- 0.3 microM) and competitively inhibited by L-leucine in the presence of Na+ (V(max), 0.49 +/- 0.06 pmol (microg protein)(-1) min(-1); K(m), 6.5 +/- 0.9 microM). HUVECs express SLC3A2/4F2hc, SLC7A7/4F2-lc2 and SLC7A6/4F2-lc3 genes encoding for the high-affinity transport system y+L. N(G)-Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester and L-leucine, but not NEM, inhibited NO synthesis in medium containing 1.5 microM L-arginine. Cells exposed to 25 mM D-glucose (24 h) exhibited reduced system y+L activity (V(max), 0.15 +/- 0.008 pmol (microg protein)(-1) min(-1); K(m), 1.4 +/- 0.3 microM) and NO synthesis. However, 25 mM D-glucose increased NO synthesis and L-arginine transport via system y+. Thus, L-arginine transport through system y+L plays a role in NO synthesis, which could be a determining factor in pathological conditions where the endothelial L-arginine-NO pathway is altered, such as in diabetes mellitus.
CD4(+) T cell activation is controlled by signaling through the T cell receptor in addition to various co-receptors, and is also affected by their interactions with effector and regulatory T cells in the microenvironment. Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are caused by the persistent activation and expansion of auto-aggressive CD4(+) T cells that attack intestinal epithelial cells. However, the molecular basis for the persistent activation of CD4(+) T cells in IBD remains unclear. In this study, we investigated how the CD98 heavy chain (CD98hc, Slc3a2) affected the development of colitis in an experimental animal model. Transferring CD98hc-deficient CD4(+)CD25(-) T cells into Rag2(-/-) mice did not cause colitis accompanied by increasing Foxp3(+) inducible regulatory T cells. By comparison, CD98hc-deficient naturally occurring regulatory T cells (nTregs) had a decreased capability to suppress colitis induced by CD4(+)CD25(-) T cells, although CD98hc-deficient mice did not have a defect in the development of nTregs. Blocking CD98hc with an anti-CD98 blocking antibody prevented the development of colitis. Our results indicate that CD98hc regulates the expansion of autoimmune CD4(+) T cells in addition to controlling nTregs functions, which suggests the CD98hc as an important target molecule for establishing strategies for treating colitis.
The cystine transport activity of a lens epithelial cell line originated from a canine mature cataract was investigated. The distinct cystine transport activity was observed, which was inhibited to 28% by extracellular 1 mM glutamate. The cDNA sequences of canine cysteine/glutamate exchanger (xCT) and 4F2hc were determined. The predicted amino acid sequences were 527 and 533 amino acid polypeptides, respectively. The amino acid sequences of canine xCT and 4F2hc showed high similarities (>80%) to those of humans. The expression of xCT in lens epithelial cell line was confirmed by western blot analysis. RT-PCR analysis revealed high level expression only in the brain, and it was below the detectable level in other tissues.
Overexpression of CD98hc (SLC3A2) occurs in a variety of cancers and is suspected to contribute to tumor growth. CD98, a heterodimeric transmembrane protein, physically associates with certain integrin β subunit cytoplasmic domains via its heavy chain, CD98hc. CD98hc regulates adhesion-induced intracellular signal transduction via integrins, thereby, affecting cell proliferation and clonal expansion. Disruption of CD98hc led to embryonic lethality in mice (E 3.5 and E 9.5) and CD98hc -/- embryonic stem cell transplantation failed to form teratomas, while CD98hc over-expression in somatic cells resulted in anchorage-independent growth. However, it is unclear whether interference with CD98hc expression tumor cell behavior.
Renal cell cancer cell lines have been used to determine the effect of CD98hc expression on cancer cell behavior using cell adhesion, cell trans-migration and cell spreading assays. Flow cytometric analysis was performed to study the rate of apoptosis after detachment or serum starvation. shRNA-lentiviral constructs were used to stably knockdown or reconstitute full length or mutated CD98hc. The role of CD98 as a promotor of tumorigenesis was evaluated using an in in vivo tumor transplantation animal model. Immunohistochemical analysis was performed to analyze cell proliferation and CD98 expression in tumors.
This report shows that CD98hc silencing in clear cell renal cancer cells reverts certain characteristics of tumorigenesis, including cell spreading, migration, proliferation and survival in vitro, and tumor growth in vivo. Acquisition of tumorigenic characteristics in clear cell renal cancer cells occurred through the integrin binding domain of CD98hc. A CD98hc/integrin interaction was required for adhesion-induced sustained FAK phosphorylation and activation of the major downstream signaling pathways PI3k/Akt and MEK/ERK, while overexpression of a constitutive active form of FAK rescued the CD98hc deficiency.
In this study we demonstrate that loss of CD98hc blocks tumorigenic potential in renal cell cancer.
Lysinuric protein intolerance (LPI) is an inherited aminoaciduria caused by recessive mutations in the SLC7A7 gene encoding y+L amino acid transporter 1 (y+LAT1), which combines with 4F2hc to generate an active transporter responsible for the system y+L amino acid transport. We have previously shown that the y+LAT1 proteins with point mutations are expressed in the plasma membrane, while those with frameshift mutations are retained in the cytoplasm. This finding has prompted us to study whether the difference in localization is due to the inability of the structurally altered mutant y+LAT1 proteins to heteromerize with 4F2hc. For this purpose, we utilized FACS technique to reveal fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) in cells expressing wild type or LPI-mutant CFP-tagged y+LAT1 and YFP-tagged 4F2hc. The heteromerization of y+LAT1 and 4F2hc within the cell is not disrupted by any of the tested LPI mutations. In addition, the expression rate of the LPI mutant y+LAT1 proteins was significantly lower and cellular mortality was markedly increased than that of the wild type y+LAT1 in transfected samples. Our results indicate that the FACS-FRET method provides an alternative approach for screening of potential protein associations.
4F2hc is a type-II glycoprotein whose covalent-bound association with one of several described light chains yields a heterodimer mainly involved in large neutral amino acid transport. Likewise, it is well known that the heavy chain interacts with β-integrins mediating integrin-dependent events such as survival, proliferation, migration and even transformation. 4F2hc is a ubiquitous protein whose overexpression has been related to tumor development and progression. Stable silencing of 4F2hc in HeLa cells using an artificial miRNA impairs in vivo tumorigenicity and leads to an ineffective proliferation response to mitogens. 4F2hc colocalizes with β1-integrins and CD147, but this interaction does not occur in lipid rafts in HeLa cells. Moreover, silenced cells present defects in integrin- (FAK, Akt and ERK1/2) and hypoxia-dependent signaling, and reduced expression/activity of MMP-2. These alterations seem to be dependent on the inappropriate formation of CD147/4F2hc/β1-integrin heterocomplexes on the cell surface, arising when CD147 cannot interact with 4F2hc. Although extracellular galectin-3 accumulates due to the decrease in MMP-2 activity, galectin-3 signaling events are blocked due to an impaired interaction with 4F2hc, inducing an increased degradation of β-catenin. Furthermore, cell motility is compromised after protein silencing, suggesting that 4F2hc is related to tumor invasion by facilitating cell motility. Therefore, here we propose a molecular mechanism by which 4F2hc participates in tumor progression, favoring first steps of epithelial-mesenchymal transition by inhibition of β-catenin proteasomal degradation through Akt/GSK-3β signaling and enabling cell motility.
Skin aging is linked to reduced epidermal proliferation and general extracellular matrix atrophy. This involves factors such as the cell adhesion receptors integrins and amino acid transporters. CD98hc (SLC3A2), a heterodimeric amino acid transporter, modulates integrin signaling in vitro. We unravel CD98hc functions in vivo in skin. We report that CD98hc invalidation has no appreciable effect on cell adhesion, clearly showing that CD98hc disruption phenocopies neither CD98hc knockdown in cultured keratinocytes nor epidermal β1 integrin loss in vivo. Instead, we show that CD98hc deletion in murine epidermis results in improper skin homeostasis and epidermal wound healing. These defects resemble aged skin alterations and correlate with reduction of CD98hc expression observed in elderly mice. We also demonstrate that CD98hc absence in vivo induces defects as early as integrin-dependent Src activation. We decipher the molecular mechanisms involved in vivo by revealing a crucial role of the CD98hc/integrins/Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) leukemia-associated RhoGEF (LARG)/RhoA pathway in skin homeostasis. Finally, we demonstrate that the deregulation of RhoA activation in the absence of CD98hc is also a result of impaired CD98hc-dependent amino acid transports.
CD98hc is a type II transmembrane protein that covalently links to one of several L-type amino acid transporters. CD98hc was first identified as a lymphocyte activation marker. In this study, we examined the role that CD98hc plays in the functions of macrophages using tissue specific knock-out miceCD98hc (CD98hc(flox/-)LysM-cre mice). When isolated peritoneal macrophages were incubated for 48 h, the macrophages obtained from the knock-out mice showed round-shaped morphologies, while almost all of the cells obtained from the control mice were spindle-shaped. The macrophage functions such as the antigen-presenting, phagocytic, and fusion activities, have been reported to decrease in CD98hc-deficient peritoneal macrophages. In addition, when the CD98hc deficient macrophages were stimulated with either IFN-γ/LPS or IL-4, the production of NO(2) or arginase-I decreased in comparison to that observed in the control macrophages. These findings show that the CD98hc molecules play an important role in the activation and functions of macrophages.
Little is known about the CD98 heavy chain (CD98hc) in the T lymphocyte-mediated immune response to alloantigen.
We used an in vitro mixed leukocyte reaction assay and a cardiac transplantation model to evaluate the mechanisms of CD98hc in regulating alloimmune responses.
A T cell-specific deficiency of CD98hc resulted in lower responses to alloantigen stimulation in a mixed leukocyte reaction assay, and CD98hc-deficient mice accepted full major histocompatibility complex-mismatched cardiac allografts. Consistent with graft survival, the infiltration of the graft by immune cells in CD98hc-deficient mice was significantly lower than that in wild-type mice. A chemotaxis assay revealed the migration of CD98hc-deficient lymphocytes to decrease in the presence of CCL5 compared with wild-type cells. Moreover, the proportion of CD4/Foxp3-positive cells and Foxp3 messenger RNA increased significantly in CD98hc-deficient recipients, consistent with the down-regulation of mammalian target of rapamycin and PS6 kinase; and allograft permanent acceptance was shortened by the depletion of antibody-induced regulatory T cells. Finally, neutralizing antibody against CD98hc prolonged the cardiac allograft survival.
Taken together, our data indicate that T cell-specific deficiency in CD98hc can contribute to cardiac allograft permanent acceptance correlating with the attenuation of lymphocyte migration and by increasing the generation of regulatory T cells. These findings are expected to make it possible to develop novel approaches for treating allograft rejection and promoting transplantation tolerance.
The interplay of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells targeting autoantigens is responsible for the progression of a number of autoimmune diseases, including type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1D). Understanding the molecular mechanisms that regulate T cell activation is crucial for designing effective therapies for autoimmune diseases. We probed a panel of Abs with T cell-modulating activity and identified a mAb specific for the H chain of CD98 (CD98hc) that was able to suppress T cell proliferation. The anti-CD98hc mAb also inhibited Ag-specific proliferation and the acquisition of effector function by CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells in vitro and in vivo. Injection of the anti-CD98hc mAb completely prevented the onset of cyclophosphamide-induced diabetes in NOD mice. Treatment of diabetic NOD mice with anti-CD98hc reversed the diabetic state to normal levels, coincident with decreased proliferation of CD4(+) T cells. Furthermore, treatment of diabetic NOD mice with CD98hc small interfering RNA resolved T1D. These data indicate that strategies targeting CD98hc might have clinical application for treating T1D and other T cell-mediated autoimmune diseases.
The multifunctional protein CD98 heavy chain (CD98hc, Slc3a2) associates with integrin β1 through its cytoplasmic and transmembrane domains and the CD98hc-mediated integrin signaling is required for maintenance of ES cell proliferation. CD98hc-null mice exhibit early post-implantation lethality similar to integrin β1-null mice, supporting the importance of its interaction with integrin β1. On the other hand, the extracellular domain of CD98hc interacts with L-type amino acid transporters (LATs) and is essential for appropriate cell surface distribution of LATs. LATs mediate the transport of amino acids and other molecules such as thyroid hormone. In this respect, CD98hc may also affect development via these transporters.
In this study, mice were generated from embryonic stem (ES) cell line (PST080) harboring a mutant CD98hc allele (CD98hcΔ/+). Expression of the CD98hc mutant allele results in ΔCD98hc-β geo fusion protein where extracellular C-terminal 102 amino acids of CD98hc are replaced with β geo. Analyses of PST080 ES cells as well as reconstituted frog oocytes demonstrated that ΔCD98hc-β geo fusion protein preserved its ability to interact with integrin β1 although this mutant protein was hardly localized on the cell surface. These findings suggest that ΔCD98hc-β geo protein can mediate integrin signaling but cannot support amino acid transport through LATs. CD98hcΔ/+ mice were normal. Although some of the implantation sites lacked embryonic component at E9.5, all the implantation sites contained embryonic component at E7.5. Thus, CD98hcΔ/Δ embryos are likely to die between E7.5 and E9.5.
Considering that CD98hc complete knockout (CD98hc-/-) embryos are reported to die shortly after implantation, our findings suggest potential stage-specific roles of CD98hc in murine embryonic development. CD98hc may be essential for early post-implantation development by regulating integrin-dependent signaling, while the other function of CD98hc as a component of amino acid transporters may be required for embryonic development at later stages.
4F2hc (CD98hc) is a multifunctional type II membrane glycoprotein involved in several functions as amino acid transport, cell fusion, β1-integrin-signaling and transformation. 4F2hc ectodomain has been crystallized and its three-dimensional structure determined. We have carried out a spectroscopical/structural characterization of the recombinant ectodomain in order to obtain information on its dynamic structure in solution and on its ability to form homodimers by itself in the absence of the transmembrane helix and of the potential interactions with the plasma membrane. Analytical ultracentrifugation and crosslinking experiments showed that the ectodomain is monomeric in solution. The secondary structure determined by far-UV circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy (around 30% α-helix and 20% β-sheets, 12% antiparallel and 8% parallel) reveals a compact and thermally stable structure with a high melting temperature (57-59°C). Tryptophan residues are mainly buried and immobilized in the hydrophobic core of the protein as suggested by near-UV CD spectrum, the position of the Trp maximum fluorescence emission (323nm) and from the acrylamide quenching constant (2.6M(-1)). Urea unfolding equilibrium has been studied by far-UV CD and fluorescence spectroscopy to gain information on the folding/unfolding process of the ectodomain. The analyses suggest the existence of two intermediate states as reported for other TIM barrel-containing proteins rather than an independent unfolding of each domain [A, (βα)(8) barrel; C, antiparallel β(8) sandwich]. Folding seems to be directed by the initial formation of hydrophobic clusters within the first strands of the β-barrel of domain A followed by additional hydrophobic interactions in domain C.
Adhesion of keratinocytes is crucial for maintaining the integrity of the skin, as demonstrated by the number of dermatological disorders of genetic origin that are associated with a defect of basal keratinocyte adhesion. Integrins are the main component of the molecular networks involved in this phenomenon, but there are many others. In a recent description of proteins associated to caveolae at the plasma membrane of human basal epidermal cells, we demonstrated that CD98hc is localized with β1 integrin.
We investigated the CD98hc proteins interactions and the role of CD98hc in keratinocyte adhesion.
CD98hc protein interaction was identified following co-immunoprecipitation and proteomic analysis using LTQ-FT mass spectrometer. Extinction of CD98hc gene expression using specific short hairpin RNA or over-expression of CD98hc lacking the β1 integrin binding site was used to evaluate the role of this protein in keratinocyte fate.
We show that CD98hc forms molecular complexes with β1 and β4 integrins in primary human keratinocytes and, using immunofluorescence, that these complexes are localized at the plasma membrane, in keeping with a role in adhesion. We confirmed that this protein is a key player of keratinocyte adhesion because in absence of interaction between CD98hc and integrins, β1 integrin failed to translocate from the cytoplasm to the plasma membrane and keratinocytes expressed epidermal differentiation markers.
All these data strongly suggested that CD98hc is involved in integrin trafficking and by consequence, in keratinocyte adhesion and differentiation.
Activation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) to migrate and proliferate is essential for the formation of intimal hyperplasia. Hence, selectively targeting activated VSMCs is a potential strategy against vaso-occlusive disorders such as in-stent restenosis, vein-graft stenosis, and transplant vasculopathy. We show that CD98 heavy chain (CD98hc) is markedly up-regulated in neointimal and cultured VSMCs, and that activated but not quiescent VSMCs require CD98hc for survival. CD98hc mediates integrin signaling and localizes amino acid transporters to the plasma membrane. SMC-specific deletion of CD98hc did not affect normal vessel morphology, indicating that CD98hc was not required for the maintenance of resident quiescent VSMCs; however, CD98hc deletion reduced intimal hyperplasia after arterial injury. Ex vivo and in vitro, loss of CD98hc suppressed proliferation and induced apoptosis in VSMCs. Furthermore, reconstitution with CD98hc mutants showed that CD98hc interaction with integrins was necessary for the survival of VSMCs. These studies establish the importance of CD98hc in VSMC proliferation and survival. Furthermore, loss of CD98hc was selectively deleterious to activated VSMCs while sparing resident quiescent VSMCs, suggesting that activated VSMCs are physiologically dependent on CD98hc, and hence, CD98hc is a potential therapeutic target in vaso-occlusive disorders.
In a variety of malignant diseases, molecular targeting represents a therapeutic option, whereby, when compared with chemotherapy, fewer side effects are thought to be expected. Especially in renal cell cancer (RCC), tyrosine kinase-inhibitors have been established as useful and highly effective therapy. However, tyrosine kinase-inhibitors currently approved for RCC treatment lack single molecule specificity and bear a variety of side effects of the gastro-intestinal tract, skin, heart and haematopoietic system. Therefore, the identification of novel cell surface markers is sought, which might lead to novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies in cancer.
Paraffin-embedded RCCs from a well characterized tissue bank were immunohistochemically quantified for embryonic transmembrane antigen CD98hc (SLC3A2) expression and semi-quantitative analyses were correlated with subtype or grade of differentiation.
We found increased CD98hc expression in different types of malign RCCs, among them clear cell (cc)RCC, papillary (p)RCC and chromophobe (ch)RCC, but lack of expression in the benign renal oncocytoma. Thereby, the extent of CD98hc expression directly complies with grade of malignancy. Furthermore, the more malignant type II pRCC significantly higher expressed CD98hc than the less malignant and more differentiated type I pRCC (type II 83.34%, type I 4.76% CD98hc positive, P < 0.00001; n = 51). The established marker for type I pRCC, Cytokreatin 7, showed 95.24% expression in type I and 26.67% expression in type II pRCC (P < 0.00001, n = 51).
From these data, we conclude that CD98hc is expressed in RCCs, whereby the extent of expression is likely to correlate directly with grade of malignancy. In pRCCs, CD98hc might represent a novel and reliable marker for type II pRCC.
Integrin-dependent assembly of the fibronectin (Fn) matrix plays a central role in vertebrate development. We identify CD98hc, a membrane protein, as an important component of the matrix assembly machinery both in vitro and in vivo. CD98hc was not required for biosynthesis of cellular Fn or the maintenance of the repertoire or affinity of cellular Fn binding integrins, which are important contributors to Fn assembly. Instead, CD98hc was involved in the cell's ability to exert force on the matrix and did so by dint of its capacity to interact with integrins to support downstream signals that lead to activation of RhoA small GTPase. Thus, we identify CD98hc as a membrane protein that enables matrix assembly and establish that it functions by interacting with integrins to support RhoA-driven contractility. CD98hc expression can vary widely; our data show that these variations in CD98hc expression can control the capacity of cells to assemble an Fn matrix, a process important in development, wound healing, and tumorigenesis.
In mammals, beta1 integrin adhesion receptors generate signals that mediate cell spreading, migration, proliferation, and survival. CD98, a heterodimeric transmembrane protein, physically associates with certain integrin beta subunit cytoplasmic domains (tails) via its heavy chain, CD98hc (SLC3A2), and loss of CD98hc impairs integrin signaling. Here we have used the lack of CD98hc interaction with the Drosophila integrin betaPS tail for a homology scanning analysis that implicated the C-terminal 8 residues of beta3 (Thr(755)-Thr(802)) in CD98hc binding. We then identified point mutations in the beta3 C terminus (T755K and T758M) that abolish CD98hc association and a double mutation in the corresponding residues in the betaPS tail (K839T,M842T), which resulted in gain of CD98hc interaction. Furthermore, the loss of function beta3(T755K) mutation or the gain of function beta3/betaPS(K839T,M842T) led to a loss or gain of integrin-mediated cell spreading, respectively. Thus, we have identified critical integrin residues required for CD98hc interaction and in doing so have shown that CD98c interaction with the integrin beta tail is required for its ability to mediate integrin signaling. These studies also provide new insights into how CD98hc may cooperate with other cytoplasmic domain binding proteins to modulate integrin functions and into the evolution of integrin signaling.
Integrins regulate cellular behaviors through signaling pathways, including Rho GTPases and kinases. CD98 heterodimers, comprised of a heavy chain (CD98hc, SLC3A2) and one of several light chains, interact with integrins through CD98hc. CD98hc overexpression leads to anchorage-independent cell growth and tumorigenesis in 3T3 fibroblasts and activates certain integrin-regulated signaling pathways. To establish the biological function of CD98hc, we disrupted the gene and analyzed CD98hc-null cells. Here we report that CD98hc contributes to integrin-dependent cell spreading, cell migration, and protection from apoptosis. Furthermore, CD98hc is required for efficient adhesion-induced activation of Akt and Rac GTPase, major contributors to the integrin-dependent signals involved in cell survival and cell migration. CD98 promotes amino acid transport through its light chains; however, a CD98hc mutant that interacts with beta1 integrins, but not CD98 light chains, restored integrin-dependent signaling and protection from apoptosis. beta1 integrins are involved in the pathogenesis of certain cancers. CD98hc deletion markedly impaired the ability of embryonic stem cells to form teratocarcinomas in mice; teratocarcinoma formation was reconstituted by reexpression of CD98hc or of the mutant that interacts exclusively with integrins. Thus, CD98hc is an integrin-associated protein that mediates integrin-dependent signals, which promote tumorigenesis.
CD98hc (SLC3A2) constitutively and specifically associates with beta(1) integrins and is highly expressed on the surface of human tumor cells irrespective of the tissue of origin. We have found here that expression of CD98hc promotes both anchorage- and serum-independent growth. This oncogenic activity is dependent on beta(1) integrin-mediated phosphoinositol 3-hydroxykinase stimulation and the level of surface expression of CD98hc. Using chimeras of CD98hc and the type II membrane protein CD69, we show that the transmembrane domain of CD98hc is necessary and sufficient for integrin association in cells. Furthermore, CD98hc/beta(1) integrin association is required for focal adhesion kinase-dependent phosphoinositol 3-hydroxykinase activation and cellular transformation. Amino acids 82-87 in the putative cytoplasmic/transmembrane region appear to be critical for the oncogenic potential of CD98hc and provide a novel mechanism for tumor promotion by integrins. These results explain how high expression of CD98hc in human cancers contributes to transformation; furthermore, the transmembrane association of CD98hc and beta(1) integrins may provide a new target for cancer therapy.
The uniporter TAT1 (Slc16a10) mediates the facilitated diffusion of aromatic amino acids (AAAs) across basolateral membranes of kidney, small intestine and liver epithelial cells, and across the plasma membrane of non-epithelial cells like skeletal myocytes. Its role for body AA homeostasis has now been investigated using newly generated TAT1 (Slc16a10) defective mice (tat1(-/-)). These mice grow and reproduce normally, show no gross phenotype and no obvious neurological defect. Histological analysis did not reveal abnormalities and there is no compensatory change in any tested AA transporter mRNA. TAT1 null mice, however, display increased plasma, muscle and kidney AAA concentration under both normal and high protein diet, although this concentration remains normal in the liver. A major aromatic aminoaciduria and a smaller urinary loss of all substrates additionally transported by l-type AA antiporter Lat2-4F2hc (Slc7a8) were revealed under a high protein diet. This suggests an epithelial transport defect as also shown by the accumulation of intravenously injected (123)I-2-I-l-Phe in kidney and l-[(3)H]Phe in ex vivo everted gut sac enterocytes. Taken together, these data indicate that the uniporter TAT1 is required to equilibrate the concentration of AAAs across specific membranes. For instance, it enables hepatocytes to function as a sink that controls the extracellular AAAs concentration. Additionally, it facilitates the release of AAAs across the basolateral membrane of small intestine and proximal kidney tubule epithelial cells, thereby allowing the efflux of other neutral AAs presumably via Lat2-4F2hc.
System L is a major transport system for cellular uptake of neutral amino acids. Among system L transporters, L-type amino acid transporter 1 (LAT1) is responsible for the nutrient uptake in cancer cells, whereas L-type amino acid transporter 2 (LAT2) is a transporter for non-cancer cells. In this study, we have established HEK293 cell lines stably expressing high levels of human LAT1 and LAT2 forming heterodimers with native human 4F2hc of the cells. We have found that L-[(14)C]alanine is an appropriate substrate to examine the function of LAT2, whereas L-[(14)C]leucine is used for LAT1. By using L-[(14)C]alanine on LAT2, we have for the first time directly evaluated the function of human LAT2 expressed in mammalian cells and obtained its reliable kinetics. Using α-alkyl amino acids including α-methyl-alanine and α-ethyl-L-alanine, we have demonstrated that α-alkyl groups interfere with the interaction with LAT2. These cell lines with higher practical advantages would be useful for screening and analyzing compounds to develop LAT1-specific drugs that can be used for cancer diagnosis and therapeutics. The strategy that we took to establish the cell lines would also be applicable to the other heterodimeric transporters with important therapeutic implications.
4F2hc (CD98) has been associated with tumor growth, and is highly expressed in various tumors. The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinicopathological significance of 4F2hc expression in pulmonary neuroendocrine (NE) tumors. Surgically-resected patient tumors including 16 large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC), 12 small cell lung cancer (SCLC), 1 atypical carcinoid (AC) and 5 typical carcinoid (TC) samples were included in this study. Tumor sections were immunohistochemically stained for 4F2hc (CD98), glucose transporter 1 (Glut1) and 3 (Glut3), hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), hexokinase I, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), microvessel density (CD34), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway (p-Akt, p-mTOR and p-S6K) and for a cell cycle regulator (p53). 4F2hc was overexpressed in 0% of the pulmonary carcinoids (TCs and ACs), 62.5% of the LCNECs and 50.0% of the SCLCs. A positive 4F2hc expression was significantly associated with age, histology and Glut1 expression. Moreover, a significant correlation was found between 4F2hc expression, and Glut1, HIF-1α, p-Akt, p-mTOR and p-S6K. The expression of 4F2hc was also significantly associated with poor overall survival. The expression of 4F2hc expression tended to increase from low-grade to high-grade pulmonary NE tumors. Our results suggest that 4F2hc may play a significant role in tumor progression, hypoxic conditions and poor outcome in patients with pulmonary NE tumors.
LAT2 (system L amino acid transporter 2) is composed of the subunits Slc7a8/Lat2 and Slc3a2/4F2hc. This transporter is highly expressed along the basolateral membranes of absorptive epithelia in kidney and small intestine, but is also abundant in the brain. Lat2 is an energy-independent exchanger of neutral amino acids, and was shown to transport thyroid hormones. We report in the present paper that targeted inactivation of Slc7a8 leads to increased urinary loss of small neutral amino acids. Development and growth of Slc7a8(-/-) mice appears normal, suggesting functional compensation of neutral amino acid transport by alternative transporters in kidney, intestine and placenta. Movement co-ordination is slightly impaired in mutant mice, although cerebellar development and structure remained inconspicuous. Circulating thyroid hormones, thyrotropin and thyroid hormone-responsive genes remained unchanged in Slc7a8(-/-) mice, possibly because of functional compensation by the thyroid hormone transporter Mct8 (monocarboxylate transporter 8), which is co-expressed in many cell types. The reason for the mild neurological phenotype remains unresolved.
Since arginine metabolites, such as nitric oxide and polyamines, influence the expression of genes involved in erythroid differentiation, the transport of the cationic amino acid may play an important role in erythroid cells. However, available data only concern the presence in these cells of CAT1 transporter (system y(+)), while no information exists on the role of the heterodimeric transporters of system y(+)L (4F2hc/y(+)LAT1 and 4F2hc/y(+)LAT2) which operates transmembrane arginine fluxes cis-inhibited by neutral amino acids in the presence of sodium. Using erythroleukemia K562 cells and normal erythroid precursors, we demonstrate here that arginine transport in human erythroid cells is due to the additive contributions of a leucine-sensitive and leucine-insensitive component. In both cell types, leucine inhibition of arginine influx is much less evident in the absence of sodium, a hallmark of system y(+)L. In K562 cells, N-ethylmaleimide, a known inhibitor of CAT transporters (system y(+)), suppresses only a fraction of arginine influx corresponding to leucine-insensitive uptake. Moreover, in Xenopus oocytes coexpressing 4F2hc and y(+)LAT2, leucine exerts a marked inhibition of arginine transport, partially dependent on sodium, while no inhibition is seen in oocytes expressing CAT1. Lastly, silencing of SLC7A6, the gene for y(+)LAT2, lowers arginine transport and doubles the intracellular content of the cationic amino acid in K562 cells. We conclude that arginine transport in human erythroid cells is due to both system y(+) (CAT1 transporter) and system y(+)L (4F2hc/y(+)LAT2 isoform), which mainly contribute, respectively, to the influx and to the efflux of the cationic amino acid.
Melphalan is widely used in the treatment of multiple myeloma. Pharmacokinetics of this alkylating drug shows high inter-individual variability. As melphalan is a phenylalanine derivative, the pharmacokinetic variability may be determined by genetic polymorphisms in the L-type amino acid transporters LAT1 (SLC7A5) and LAT2 (SLC7A8).
Pharmacokinetics were analysed in 64 patients after first administration of intravenous melphalan. Severity of side effects was documented according to WHO criteria. Genomic DNA was analysed for polymorphisms in LAT1 and LAT2 by sequencing of the entire coding region, intron-exon boundaries and 2 kb upstream promoter region. Selected polymorphisms in the common heavy chain of both transporters, the protein 4F2hc (SLC3A2), were analysed by single nucleotide primer extension.
Melphalan pharmacokinetics was highly variable with up to 6.2-fold differences in total clearance. A total of 44 polymorphisms were identified in LAT1 and 21 polymorphisms in LAT2. From all variants, only five were in the coding region and only one heterozygous non-synonymous polymorphism (Ala94Thr) was found in LAT2. Numerous polymorphisms were found in the LAT1 and LAT2 5'-flanking regions but did not correlate with expression of the respective genes. No significant correlations could be observed between the polymorphisms in 4F2hc, LAT1, and LAT2 with melphalan pharmacokinetics or with melphalan side effects.
The study confirmed that these transporter genes are highly conserved, particularly in the coding sequences. Genetic variation in 4F2hc, LAT1, and LAT2 does not appear to be a major cause of inter-individual variability in pharmacokinetics and of adverse reactions to melphalan.
The rate of amino acid efflux from individual cells needs to be adapted to cellular demands and plays a central role for the control of extracellular amino acid homeostasis. A particular example of such an outward amino acid transport is the basolateral efflux from transporting epithelial cells located in the small intestine and kidney proximal tubule. Because LAT2-4F2hc (Slc7a8-Slc3a2), the best known basolateral neutral amino acid transporter of these epithelial cells, functions as an obligatory exchanger, we tested whether TAT1 (Slc16a10), the aromatic amino-acid facilitated diffusion transporter, might allow amino acid efflux via this exchanger by recycling its influx substrates. In this study, we show by immunofluorescence that TAT1 and LAT2 indeed colocalize in the early kidney proximal tubule. Using the Xenopus laevis oocytes expression system, we show that L-glutamine is released from oocytes into an amino-acid-free medium only when both transporters are coexpressed. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis reveals that several other neutral amino acids are released as well. The transport function of both TAT1 and LAT2-4F2hc is necessary for this efflux, as coexpression of functionally inactive but surface-expressed mutants is ineffective. Based on negative results of coimmunoprecipitation and crosslinking experiments, the physical interaction of these transporters does not appear to be required. Furthermore, replacement of TAT1 or LAT2-4F2hc by the facilitated diffusion transporter LAT4 or the obligatory exchanger LAT1, respectively, supports similar functional cooperation. Taken together, the results suggest that the aromatic amino acid diffusion pathway TAT1 can control neutral amino acid efflux via neighboring exchanger LAT2-4F2hc, by recycling its aromatic influx substrates.
SLC7A11 (xCT), together with SLC3A2 (4F2hc), encodes the heterodimeric amino acid transport system x(c)-, which mediates cystine-glutamate exchange and thereby regulates intracellular glutathione levels. We used microarrays to analyze gene expression of transporters in 60 human cancer cell lines used by the National Cancer Institute for drug screening (NCI-60). The expression of SLC7A11 showed significant correlation with that of SLC3A2 (r = 0.66), which in turn correlated with SLC7A5 (r = 0.68), another known partner for SLC3A2, and with T1A-2 (r = 0.60; all P < 0.0001). Linking expression of SLC7A11 with potency of 1,400 candidate anticancer drugs identified 39 showing positive correlations, e.g., amino acid analogue, L-alanosine, and 296 with negative correlations, e.g., geldanamycin. However, no significant correlation was observed with the geldanamycin analogue 17-allylamino, 17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG). Inhibition of transport system x(c)- with glutamate or (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine in lung A549 and HOP-62, and ovarian SK-OV-3 cells, reduced the potency of L-alanosine and lowered intracellular glutathione levels. This further resulted in increased potency of geldanamycin, with no effect on 17-AAG. Down-regulation of SLC7A11 by small interfering RNA affected drug potencies similarly to transport inhibitors. The inhibitor of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase, buthionine sulfoximine, also decreased intracellular glutathione levels and enhanced potency of geldanamycin, but did not affect L-alanosine. These results indicate that SLC7A11 mediates cellular uptake of L-alanosine but confers resistance to geldanamycin by supplying cystine for glutathione maintenance. SLC7A11 expression could serve as a predictor of cellular response to L-alanosine and glutathione-mediated resistance to geldanamycin, yielding a potential target for increasing chemosensitivity to multiple drugs.
c-Jun N-terminal (JNK) family kinases have a common peptide-docking site used by upstream activating kinases, substrates, scaffold proteins, and phosphatases, where the ensemble of bound proteins determines signaling output. Although there are many JNK structures, little is known about mechanisms of allosteric regulation between the catalytic and peptide-binding sites, and the activation loop, whose phosphorylation is required for catalytic activity. Here, we compare three structures of unliganded JNK3 bound to different peptides. These were compared as a class to structures that differ in binding of peptide, small molecule ligand, or conformation of the kinase activation loop. Peptide binding induced an inhibitory interlobe conformer that was reversed by alterations in the activation loop. Structure class analysis revealed the subtle structural mechanisms for allosteric signaling between the peptide-binding site and activation loop. Biochemical data from isothermal calorimetry, fluorescence energy transfer, and enzyme inhibition demonstrated affinity differences among the three peptides that were consistent with structural observations.
The c-jun N-terminal kinase 3 (JNK3) is a promising drug target for the treatment of neurological disorders. Here we report a direct ELISA including the optimization of a nonradioactive immunosorbent JNK3 activity assay to determine inhibitory potency of small-molecule inhibitors. Based on our previous JNK3 assay and our recently optimized p38α mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) protocol for monitoring the phosphorylation of activating-transcription factor 2 (ATF-2), we present a rapid and straightforward alternative to conventional radioactive and indirect ELISA kinase assays. To validate the assay with the optimized assay conditions we used reference compounds and achieved well comparable IC(50) results to published data. The use of a linked monoclonal antibody increased the specificity and the sensitivity of the assay, reducing the required antibody concentration by approximately 100-fold. The novel protocol is an accurate, easy-to-handle and robust screening assay for JNK3 and the assay performance was reduced from 7.5 to 3h.
c-Jun N-terminal kinase 3alpha1 (JNK3alpha1) is a mitogen-activated protein kinase family member expressed primarily in the brain that phosphorylates protein transcription factors, including c-Jun and activating transcription factor-2 (ATF-2) upon activation by a variety of stress-based stimuli. In this study, we set out to design JNK3-selective inhibitors that had >1000-fold selectivity over p38, another closely related mitogen-activated protein kinase family member. To do this we employed traditional medicinal chemistry principles coupled with structure-based drug design. Inhibitors from the aminopyrazole class, such as SR-3576, were found to be very potent JNK3 inhibitors (IC(50) = 7 nm) with >2800-fold selectivity over p38 (p38 IC(50) > 20 microm) and had cell-based potency of approximately 1 microm. In contrast, indazole-based inhibitors exemplified by SR-3737 were potent inhibitors of both JNK3 (IC(50) = 12 nm) and p38 (IC(50) = 3 nm). These selectivity differences between the indazole class and the aminopyrazole class came despite nearly identical binding (root mean square deviation = 0.33 A) of these two compound classes to JNK3. The structural features within the compounds giving rise to the selectivity in the aminopyrazole class include the highly planar nature of the pyrazole, N-linked phenyl structures, which better occupied the smaller active site of JNK3 compared with the larger active site of p38.
JNKs are implicated in a range of brain pathologies and receive considerable attention as potential therapeutic targets. However, JNKs also regulate physiological and homeostatic processes. An attractive hypothesis from the drug development perspective is that distinct JNK isoforms mediate "physiological" and "pathological" responses. However, this lacks experimental evaluation. Here we investigate the isoforms, subcellular pools, and c-Jun/ATF2 targets of JNK in death of central nervous system neurons following withdrawal of trophic support. We use gene knockouts, gene silencing, subcellularly targeted dominant negative constructs, and pharmacological inhibitors. Combined small interfering RNA knockdown of all JNKs 1, 2, and 3, provides substantial neuroprotection. In contrast, knockdown or knock-out of individual JNKs or two JNKs together does not protect. This explains why the evidence for JNK in neuronal death has to date been largely pharmacological. Complete knockdown of c-Jun and ATF2 using small interfering RNA also fails to protect, casting doubt on c-Jun as a critical effector of JNK in neuronal death. Nonetheless, the death requires nuclear but not cytosolic JNK activity as nuclear dominant negative inhibitors of JNK protect, whereas cytosolic inhibitors only block physiological JNK function. Thus any one of the three JNKs is capable of mediating apoptosis and inhibition of nuclear JNK is protective.
c-jun-N-Terminal kinase 3alpha1 (JNK3alpha1) is a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase family member expressed primarily in the brain that phosphorylates protein transcription factors including c-jun and activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2) upon activation by a variety of stress-based stimuli. In this study, the kinetic mechanism for JNK3alpha1 was determined via initial velocity patterns in the presence and absence of both ATP and ATF2 competitive inhibitors. Peptide inhibitors from both ATF2 (peptide 1) and JNK-interacting protein 1 (JIP-1) (peptide 3), derived from the homologous delta-domain JNK docking sequence, inhibited JNK3alpha1 activity in a competitive fashion versus ATF2 while being pure noncompetitive toward ATP. In contrast, peptides derived from the phosphoacceptor activation domain on ATF2 (peptides 4 and 5) were recognized neither as substrates nor as inhibitors of JNK3alpha1. AMP-PCP and compound 6, a small molecule analinopyrimidine, exhibited pure noncompetitive inhibition versus ATF2 and competitive inhibition versus ATP. Peptide inhibitors based on the delta-domain sites of JIP ( 3) and ATF2 ( 1) were not recognized by p38, also of the MAPK family, which may give insight into finding more selective inhibitors for the JNK family of kinases. Collectively these data showed that JNK3alpha1 proceeded by a random sequential kinetic mechanism and that the ATP and ATF2 substrate sites were non-interacting. Moreover, these results established the 11-mer JIP peptide ( 3) as a potent ( K i = 25 +/- 6 nM) competitive inhibitor versus ATF2 in JNK3alpha1.
c-Jun N-terminal kinase 3 (JNK3) is a member of the stress-activated group of mitogen-activated protein kinases. c-Jun N-terminal kinase 3 is a potent mediator of apoptosis and the use of JNK inhibitors or jnk3 gene deletion each protect against brain injury in adults. However, little is known about the role of JNK3 or its mechanism of action in neonatal brain injury. The aim of the present study was to compare the vulnerability of neonatal JNK3 knockout (JNK3 KO) mice and wild-type (WT) mice to cerebral hypoxic-ischaemic injury (HII) using unilateral-carotid occlusion combined with transient hypoxia. The degree of neural tissue loss in JNK3 KO mice was substantially reduced compared with WT mice (JNK3 KO 27.8%+/-2.8% versus WT 48.3%+/-2.0%, P<or=0.0001) after HII. Significant attenuation of injury was observed in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and thalamus of JNK3 KO compared with WT mice. Hypoxic-ischaemic injury increased JNK phosphorylation and activity, with JNK3 as the major isoform. Significantly, in JNK3 KO animals there was no difference in the activation of the upstream kinases mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MKK4) or MKK7. Downstream of JNK3, HII lead to increased phosphorylation of the transcription factors c-Jun and adenovirus transcription factor-2 (ATF-2), which was attenuated in JNK3 KO mice. c-Jun N-terminal kinase 3 deletion also decrease caspase-3 cleavage and Bim/PUMA expression, coupled with a upregulation of AKT/FOXO3a levels, linking JNK3 to apoptosis. These findings implicate JNK3 involvement in neural cell loss resulting from cerebral HII in the developing brain.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are involved in inflammation and tissue destruction in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). In particular, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) is highly activated in RA fibroblast-like synoviocytes and synovium. However, defining the precise function of this kinase has been difficult because a selective JNK inhibitor has not been available. We now report the use of a novel selective JNK inhibitor and JNK knockout mice to determine the function of JNK in synoviocyte biology and inflammatory arthritis. The novel JNK inhibitor SP600125 (anthra[1,9-cd]pyrazol-6(2H)-one) completely blocked IL-1--induced accumulation of phospho-Jun and induction of c-Jun transcription in synoviocytes. Furthermore, AP-1 binding and collagenase mRNA accumulation were completely suppressed by SP600125. In contrast, complete inhibition of p38 had no effect, and ERK inhibition had only a modest effect. The essential role of JNK was confirmed in cultured synoviocytes from JNK1 knockout mice and JNK2 knockout mice, each of which had a partial defect in IL-1--induced AP-1 activation and collagenase-3 expression. Administration of SP600125 modestly decreased the rat paw swelling in rat adjuvant-induced arthritis. More striking was the near-complete inhibition of radiographic damage that was associated with decreased AP-1 activity and collagenase-3 gene expression. Therefore, JNK is a critical MAPK pathway for IL-1--induced collagenase gene expression in synoviocytes and in joint arthritis, indicating that JNK is an important therapeutic target for RA.
IL-12 is a central immunoregulatory cytokine that promotes cell-mediated immune responses and the differentiation of naive CD4+ cells into Th1 cells. We and others have demonstrated that the Stat4 is critical for IFN-gamma production by activated T cells and Th1 cells. However, several studies have suggested that other pathways may be involved in IL-12-stimulated IFN-gamma expression. In this report we demonstrate that IL-12 activates mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 3/6 (MKK) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), but not p44/42 (ERK) or stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase MAPK. The activation of p38 MAPK is required for normal induction of IFN-gamma mRNA and IFN-gamma secretion by IL-12 in activated T cells and Th1 cells. Importantly, IL-12-stimulated p38 MAPK effector functions occur through a Stat4-independent mechanism and correlate with increased serine phosphorylation of activating transcription factor-2. The requirement for p38 MAPK in IL-12 function suggests that this pathway may be an important in vivo target for the anti-inflammatory actions of p38 MAPK inhibitors.
JNK3 alpha 1 is predominantly a neuronal specific MAP kinase that is believed to require, like all MAP kinases, both threonine and tyrosine phosphorylation for maximal enzyme activity. In this study we investigated the in vitro activation of JNK3 alpha 1 by MAP kinase kinase 4 (MKK4), MAP kinase kinase 7 (MKK7), and the combination of MKK4 + MKK7. Mass spectral analysis showed that MKK7 was capable of monophosphorylating JNK3 alpha 1 in vitro, whereas both MKK4 and MKK7 were required for bisphosphorylation and maximal enzyme activity. Measuring catalysis under Vmax conditions showed MKK4 + MKK7-activated JNK3 alpha 1 had Vmax 715-fold greater than nonactivated JNK3 alpha 1 and MKK7-activated JNK3 alpha 1 had Vmax 250-fold greater than nonactivated JNK3 alpha 1. In contrast, MKK4-activated JNK3 alpha 1 had no increase in Vmax compared to nonactivated levels and had no phosphorylation on the basis of mass spectrometry. These data suggest that MKK7 was largely responsible for JNK3 alpha 1 activation and that a single threonine phosphorylation may be all that is needed for JNK3 alpha 1 to be active. The steady-state rate constants kcat, Km(GST-ATF2++), and Km(ATP) for both monophosphorylated and bisphosphorylated JNK3 alpha 1 were within 2-fold between the two enzyme forms, suggesting the addition of tyrosine phosphorylation does not affect the binding of ATF2, ATP, or maximal turnover. Finally, the MAP kinase inhibitor, SB203580, had an IC50 value approximately 4-fold more potent on the monophosphorylated JNK3 alpha 1 compared to the bisphosphorylated JNK3 alpha 1, suggesting only a modest effect of tyrosine phosphorylation on inhibitor binding.
Arrestins make up a small family of proteins with four mammalian members that play key roles in the regulation of multiple G protein-coupled receptor-dependent and -independent signaling pathways. Although arrestins were reported to serve as scaffolds for MAP kinase cascades, promoting the activation of JNK3, ERK1/2, and p38, the molecular mechanisms involved were not elucidated, and even the direct binding of arrestins with MAP kinases was never demonstrated. Here, using purified proteins, we show that both nonvisual arrestins directly bind JNK3α2 and its upstream activator MKK4, and that the affinity of arrestin-3 for these kinases is higher than that of arrestin-2. Reconstitution of the MKK4-JNK3α2 signaling module from pure proteins in the presence of different arrestin-3 concentrations showed that arrestin-3 acts as a "true" scaffold, facilitating JNK3α2 phosphorylation by bringing the two kinases together. Both the level of JNK3α2 phosphorylation by MKK4 and JNK3α2 activity toward its substrate ATF2 increase at low and then decrease at high arrestin-3 levels, yielding a bell-shaped concentration dependence expected with true scaffolds that do not activate the upstream kinase or its substrate. Thus, direct binding of both kinases and true scaffolding is the molecular mechanism of action of arrestin-3 on the MKK4-JNK3α2 signaling module.
Specific docking interactions between MAPKs and their activating MAPK kinases (MKKs or MEKs) are crucial for efficient and accurate signal transmission. Here, we report the identification of a MAPK-docking site, or "D-site," in the N terminus of human MKK4/JNKK1. This docking site conforms to the consensus sequence for known D-sites in other MKKs and contains the first of the two cleavage sites for anthrax lethal factor protease that have been found in the N terminus of MKK4. This docking site was both necessary and sufficient for the high affinity binding of the MAPKs JNK1, JNK2, JNK3, p38 alpha, and p38 beta to MKK4. Mutations that altered conserved residues in this docking site reduced JNK/p38 binding. In addition, a peptide version of this docking site, as well as a peptide version of the JNK-binding site of the JIP-1 scaffold protein, inhibited both MKK4/JNK binding and MKK4-mediated phosphorylation of JNK1. These same peptides also inhibited JNK2-mediated phosphorylation of c-Jun and ATF2, suggesting that transcription factors, MKK4, and the JIP scaffold compete for docking to JNK. Finally, the selectivity of the MKK4, MEK1, and MEK2 D-sites for JNK versus ERK was quantified. The MEK1 and MEK2 D-sites displayed a strong selectivity for their cognate MAPK (ERK2) versus a non-cognate MAPK (JNK). In contrast, the MKK4 D-site exhibited only limited selectivity for JNK versus ERK.
Endometriosis is an estrogen-dependent disease. P38 and C-jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) inhibitors may have a therapeutic effect on endometriosis through regulation of Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) induced estrogen metabolism.
The objective of this study was to determine whether the activated Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) signaling pathway observed in human ectopic endometrial stromal cells (ESCs) from ovarian endometriomas influences levels of aromatase and estrogen receptor β (ERβ) protein regulated by PGE2. In turn, the effects of inhibiting MAPKs in the presence of PGE2 on estrogen production were investigated in vitro and in vivo.
Expression of aromatase and ER β (ERβ) regulated by PGE2 were much higher in ESCs than eutopic endometrial stromal cells (EMs) from the same person. Activation of p38, JNK, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 and ERK 5 MAPKs by PGE2 were observed in ESCs, where PGE2 stimulated aromatase and ERβ expression mainly through p38 and JNK pathway. P38 and JNK inhibition or siRNA knockdown blocked PGE2-induced aromatase and ERβ expression. PGE2 enhanced binding of downstream p38 and JNK transcription factors activating transcription factor-2 (ATF2) and c-Jun to aromatase and ERB promoter regions in ESCs. Moreover, treatment of endometriosis xenografts with inhibitors of p38 and JNK abrogated PGE2-amplified estradiol synthesis and xenograft growth.
PGE2 activates p38 and JNK signaling pathways, further stimulating c-Jun and ATF2 binding to aromatase and ERB promoter regions with elevated estradiol production. Inhibition of JNK and P38 may be a potential way in the treatment of human endometriosis.
It has been reported that remote ischemic postconditioning was able to protect from a harmful ischemia occurring in brain. In the present study, we investigated the role of p38 MAPK signal pathway in the process of neuroprotection and anti-apoptosis following remote limb ischemic postconditioning on rat focal cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) model. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided randomly into four groups: the sham-operated group, I/R group, limb ischemic postconditioning (LPostC) group, and LPostC+SB203580 (p38 MAPK inhibitor) group. Focal ischemia was induced by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. Limb ischemic postconditioning was implemented by brief cycles of femoral artery occlusion. At 24h after modeling, we analyzed the neurological deficit score, assessed the cerebral tissue morphology by H-E staining, and evaluated neuronal apoptosis by TUNEL staining. The protein expression levels of p-p38 or p-ATF2 (phospho-activating transcription factor 2) in the penumbra region were detected by western blotting or immunohistochemical staining. Our findings revealed that LPostC relieved cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury by decreasing neurological score, improving neuronal morphological changes in the ischemic penumbra area, and reducing neuronal apoptosis. In addition, LPostC or LPostC+SB203580 attenuated the increase in p-p38 and p-ATF2 levels in ischemia/reperfusion brain tissue. These results indicate that the protective effects of LPostC against cerebral I/R injury may be related to the attenuation of neuronal apoptosis and the suppression of p38 MAPK-ATF2 pathway.
During space travel, astronauts are exposed to a wide array of high-linear energy transfer (LET) particles, with differing energies and resulting biological effects. Risk assessment of these exposures carries a large uncertainty predominantly due to the unique track structure of the particle's energy deposition. The complex damage elicited by high charge and energy (HZE) particles results from both lesions along the track core and from energetic electrons, δ rays, generated as a consequence of particle traversal. To better define how cells respond to this complex radiation exposure, a normal hTERT immortalized skin fibroblast cell line was exposed to a defined panel of particles carefully chosen to tease out track structure effects. Phosphorylation kinetics for several key double-strand break (DSB) response proteins (γ-H2AX, pATF2 and pSMC1) were defined after exposure to ten different high-LET radiation qualities and one low-LET radiation (X ray), at two doses (0.5-2 Gy) and time points (2 and 24 h). The results reveal that the lower energy particles (Fe 300, Si 93 and Ti 300 MeV/u), with a narrower track width and higher number and intensity of δ rays, cause the highest degree of persistent damage response. The persistent γ-H2AX signal at lower energies suggests that damage from these exposures are more difficult to resolve, likely due to the greater complexity of the associated DNA lesions. However, different kinetics were observed for the solely ATM-mediated phosphorylations (pATF2 and pSMC1), revealing a shallow induction at early times and a higher level of residual phosphorylation compared to γ-H2AX. The differing phospho-protein profiles exhibited, compared to γ-H2AX, suggests additional functions for these proteins within the cell. The strong correspondence between the predicted curves for energy deposition per nucleosome for each ion/energy combination and the persistent levels of γ-H2AX indicates that the nature of energy distribution defines residual levels of γ-H2AX, an indicator of unrepaired DSBs. Our results suggest that decreasing the energy of a particle results in more complex damage that may increase genomic instability and increase the risk of carcinogenesis.
Berberine is a natural product that shows benefits for metabolic syndrome (MS). However, the effects of berberine on the improvement of vascular inflammation and remodeling in MS remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether berberine could prevent vascular remodeling and inflammation in the MS condition. A rat model of MS was established, and MS rats were divided into two groups: MS group without berberine treatment, and MSB group with berberine treatment (each group n-10). Ten normal Wistar rats were used as controls (NC group). Vascular damage was examined by transmission electron microscopy and pathological staining. Compared to the NC group, the secretion of inflammatory factors was increased and the aortic wall thicker in the MS group. The MSB group exhibited decreased secretion of inflammatory factors and improved vascular remodeling, compared to the MS group. In addition, the levels of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK), activating transcription factor 2 (ATF-2) and matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP-2) were significantly decreased in the MSB group compared to the MS group. In conclusion, our data show that berberine improves vascular inflammation and remodeling in the MS condition, and this is correlated with the ability of berberine to inhibit p38 MAPK activation, ATF-2 phosphorylation, and MMP-2 expression.
Amphetamine and methamphetamine addiction is described by specific behavioral alterations, suggesting long-lasting changes in gene and protein expression within specific brain subregions involved in the reward circuitry. Given the persistence of the addiction phenotype at both behavioral and transcriptional levels, several studies have been conducted to elucidate the epigenetic landscape associated with persistent effects of drug use on the mammalian brain. This review discusses recent advances in our comprehension of epigenetic mechanisms underlying amphetamine- or methamphetamine-induced behavioral, transcriptional, and synaptic plasticity. Accumulating evidence demonstrated that drug exposure induces major epigenetic modifications-histone acetylation and methylation, DNA methylation-in a very complex manner. In rare instances, however, the regulation of a specific target gene can be correlated to both epigenetic alterations and behavioral abnormalities. Work is now needed to clarify and validate an epigenetic model of addiction to amphetamines. Investigations that include genome-wide approaches will accelerate the speed of discovery in the field of addiction.
Cambogin is a polycyclic polyprenylated acylphoroglucinol (PPAP) from the Garcinia genus, which has been used traditionally for cancer treatment across Southeastern Asia. In this study, we found that cambogin inhibited breast cancer cell proliferation and induced cell apoptosis in vitro. Cambogin induced the activation of the caspase-independent mitochondrial apoptotic pathway, as indicated by an increase in the ratio of Bax/Bcl-2 and the nuclear translocation of apoptosis inducing factor (AIF). Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry revealed that the expression of proteins involving in the radical oxygen species (ROS) pathway was among the most affected upon cambogin treatment. Cambogin enhanced cellular ROS production, and induced the activation of the ASK1-MKK4/MKK7-JNK/SAPK signaling pathway. Pretreatment with ROS scavenger N-acetylcysteine (NAC), an antioxidant, or the JNK inhibitor SP600125 was able to restore cell viability in the presence of cambogin. Importantly, cambogin treatment led to the activation of activating transcription factor-2 (ATF-2) and the trimethylation of histone H3K9 in the activator protein 1 (AP-1) binding region of the Bcl-2 gene promoter. Finally, cambogin exhibited a potential antitumor effect in MCF-7 breast cancer xenografts without apparent toxicity. Taken in conjunction, the present study indicates that cambogin can induce breast adenocarcinoma cell apoptosis and therefore represents therapeutic potential for cancer treatment.
PLK (Polo-like kinase) inhibitors, such as BI-2536, have been reported to suppress IFNB (encoding IFNβ, interferon β) gene transcription induced by ligands that activate TLR3 (Toll-like receptor 3) and TLR4. In the present study, we found that BI-2536 is likely to exert this effect by preventing the interaction of the transcription factors IRF3 (interferon-regulatory factor 3) and c-Jun with the IFNB promoter, but without affecting the TBK1 {TANK [TRAF (tumour-necrosis-factor-receptor-associated factor)-associated nuclear factor κB activator]-binding kinase 1}-catalysed phosphorylation of IRF3 at Ser³⁹⁶, the dimerization and nuclear translocation of IRF3 or the phosphorylation of c-Jun and ATF2 (activating transcription factor 2). Although BI-2536 inhibits few other kinases tested, it interacts with BET (bromodomain and extra-terminal) family members and displaces them from acetylated lysine residues on histones. We found that BET inhibitors that do not inhibit PLKs phenocopied the effect of BI-2536 on IFNB gene transcription. Similarly, BET inhibitors blocked the interaction of IRF5 with the IFNB promoter and the secretion of IFNβ induced by TLR7 or TLR9 ligands in the human plasmacytoid dendritic cell line GEN2.2, but without affecting the nuclear translocation of IRF5. We found that the BET family member BRD4 (bromodomain-containing protein 4) was associated with the IFNB promoter and that this interaction was enhanced by TLR3- or TLR4-ligation and prevented by BI-2536 and other BET inhibitors. Our results establish that BET family members are essential for TLR-stimulated IFNB gene transcription by permitting transcription factors to interact with the IFNB promoter. They also show that the interaction of the IFNB promoter with BRD4 is regulated by TLR ligation and that BI-2536 is likely to suppress IFNB gene transcription by targeting BET family members.
Interleukin 18 (IL-18) is a pleiotropic cytokine and capable of stimulating proliferation of certain cell types. Nonetheless, its effect on normal liver cells cultured remains unclear. In the present study, we discovered that IL-18 expression level was remarkably elevated at 3.3 and 8.6h after synchronized BRL-3A rat liver cells (G0 phase) re-entering the cell cycle. In addition, recombinant rat IL-18 (rrIL-18) at dosages 5-10 ng/ml increased the cell viability compared to untreated cells (with medium only) at 24 and 48 h (P<0.05). At the same time, the percentage of BrdU-labeling cells was also significantly increased (P<0.01). On the other hand, knockdown of IL-18 expression with short interference RNA (siRNA), the cell viability began to decline at 24h and significantly decreased compared to negative control (NC) at 48 and 72 h after transfection (P<0.05). Meanwhile, the number of cells in division phase (G2/M) was reduced in parallel. Further, after treatment with rrIL-18 (5 ng/ml), IL-18 and its receptor subunit IL-18Rα increased both at mRNA and protein levels. Moreover, the expression levels of adaptor molecule MyD88, transcription factor NF-κB and its downstream targets cyclin B1 and cyclin B2 were remarkably enhanced in BRL-3A cells stimulated by rrIL-18. Furthermore, transcription factor ATF2 and its targeted genes cyclin A2, Bcl-2 were also markedly increased after treatment with rrIL-18. These results demonstrated that IL-18 can augment cell proliferation via NF-κB and p38/ATF2 pathway by targeting cyclin B1, cyclin B2, cyclin A2 and Bcl-2 in BRL-3A rat liver cells.
The resistance of melanoma to current treatment modalities represents a major obstacle for durable therapeutic response, and thus the elucidation of mechanisms of resistance is urgently needed. The crucial functions of activating transcription factor-2 (ATF2) in the development and therapeutic resistance of melanoma have been previously reported, although the precise underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we report a protein kinase C-ɛ (PKCɛ)- and ATF2-mediated mechanism that facilitates resistance by transcriptionally repressing the expression of interferon-β1 (IFNβ1) and downstream type-I IFN signaling that is otherwise induced upon exposure to chemotherapy. Treatment of early-stage melanomas expressing low levels of PKCɛ with chemotherapies relieves ATF2-mediated transcriptional repression of IFNβ1, resulting in impaired S-phase progression, a senescence-like phenotype and increased cell death. This response is lost in late-stage metastatic melanomas expressing high levels of PKCɛ. Notably, nuclear ATF2 and low expression of IFNβ1 in melanoma tumor samples correlates with poor patient responsiveness to biochemotherapy or neoadjuvant IFN-α2a. Conversely, cytosolic ATF2 and induction of IFNβ1 coincides with therapeutic responsiveness. Collectively, we identify an IFNβ1-dependent, cell-autonomous mechanism that contributes to the therapeutic resistance of melanoma via the PKCɛ-ATF2 regulatory axis.Oncogene advance online publication, 2 March 2015; doi:10.1038/onc.2015.22.
Expression of brain-specific phenotypes increased in all trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-induced neural differentiation of mouse P19 embryonal carcinoma cells. Among these phenotypes, expression of class IVa β-tubulin isotype (TUBB4a) was particularly enhanced in neural differentiation. Transient transfection assays employing a reporter construct found that ATRA-mediated regulatory region of the TUBB4a gene lay in the region from -83 nt to +137 nt relative to the +1 transcription start site. Site-directed mutagenesis in the AP-1 binding site at -29/-17 suggested that the AP-1 binding site was a critical region for ATRA-mediated TUBB4a expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments suggested participation of JunD and activating transcription factor-2 (ATF2) in TUBB4a expression. Additionally, exogenous induction of the dominant-negative (dn) type of JunD canceled ATRA-induced upregulation of TUBB4a, and the dn type of ATF2 suppressed even the basal activity. Further immunoblot study revealed an ATRA-mediated increase in JunD protein, while a significant amount of ATF2 protein was constantly produced. These results suggest that differentiation-mediated activation of JunD results in enhanced TUBB4a expression.
Human β-defensins (HBDs) are an important part of the innate immune host defense at the ocular surface. Unlike other defensins, expression of HBD9 at the ocular surface is reduced during microbial infection, but activation of toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) in corneal epithelial cells has been shown to up-regulate HBD9. Our purpose was to test the hypothesis that TLR2 has a key role in the signalling pathway(s) involved in the overexpression or underexpression of HBD9, and accordingly, different pathogens would induce a different expression pattern of HBD9.
The in vitro RNAi silencing method and response to dexamethasone were used to determine key molecules involved in signalling pathways of HBD9 in immortalized human corneal epithelial cells. The techniques included cell culture with exposure to specific transcription factor inhibitors and bacteria, RNA extraction and cDNA synthesis, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, and immunohistology.
This study demonstrates that TLR2 induces HBD9 mRNA and protein expression in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Transforming growth factor-β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1) plays a central role in HBD9 induction by TLR2, and transcription factors c-JUN and activating transcription factor 2 are also involved. Dexamethasone reduces TLR2-mediated up-regulation of HBD9 mRNA and protein levels in mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase 1 (MKP1)-dependent and c-JUN-independent manner. HBD9 expression differs with gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria.
TLR2-mediated MKPs and nuclear factor-κB signalling pathways are involved in HBD9 expression. TAK-1 is a key molecule. These molecules can be potentially targeted to modulate HBD9 expression. Differential expression of HBD9 with different bacteria could be related to differences in pathogen-associated molecular patterns of these organisms.
Endothelin-1 is a paracrine factor with mitogenic, melanogenic and survival effects on cultured human melanocytes. We report that endothelin-1 signalling reduced the generation and enhanced the repair of ultraviolet radiation (UV)-induced DNA photoproducts, and inhibited apoptosis of human melanocytes, without increasing cAMP levels, melanin content or proliferation. Treatment with endothelin-1 activated the MAP kinases JNK and p38, as evidenced by phosphorylation of their target, activating transcription factor-2 (ATF-2). Endothelin-1 also enhanced the phosphorylation of JNK, p38 and ATF-2 by UV. The effects of endothelin-1 were dependent on increasing intracellular calcium mobilization by endothelin B receptor signalling. Activation of both JNK and p38 was required for reducing DNA photoproducts, but only JNK partially contributed to the survival effect of endothelin-1. ATF-2 activation depended mainly on JNK, yet was not sufficient for the effect of endothelin-1 on UV-induced DNA damage, suggesting the requirement for other JNK and p38 targets for this effect. Our results underscore the significance of endothelin-1 and endothelin B receptor signalling in reducing the genotoxic effects of UV via activating JNK and p38, hence restoring genomic stability of melanocytes.
Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is an important process implicated in tumor invasion and metastasis. Twist1 is a transcription factor that induces EMT, including E-cadherin suppression and cancer cell migration and invasion; hence it promotes cancer metastasis. Twist1 directly or indirectly regulates the expression of various genes and cellular functions involved in cancer progression. However, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the molecular basis for Twist1-mediated invasion and EMT. In human cancer cells, Twist1 was found to directly upregulate transcription of the mesenchymal gene integrin α5 in an E-box-independent, but activating protein-1 (AP-1) element-dependent, manner. Twist1 activated the integrin α5 promoter by interacting with and activating the transcription factor AP-1, composed of c-Jun and activating transcription factor-2 (ATF-2); it also enhanced the nuclear presence of ATF-2. AP-1 was critical for Twist1-induced cancer cell invasion, primarily through the induction of integrin α5, which activated c-Jun N-terminal kinase and focal adhesion kinase-signaling activities. Using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas, we found that Twist1 expression positively correlates with integrin α5 expression in human colorectal cancers. These findings suggest that cooperation between Twist1 and AP-1 represents a novel mechanism for EMT and tumor invasiveness. This study supports further investigation into the molecular basis underlying the diverse Twist1-mediated functions that occur during tumor progression.
The steroid pregnenolone sulfate activates the transcription factor activator protein-1 (AP-1) via stimulation of transient receptor potential melastatin-3 (TRPM3) channels. Here, we show that the signaling pathway requires an influx of Ca(2+) ions into the cells and a rise in the intracellular Ca(2+) levels. The upregulation of AP-1 was attenuated in cells that overexpressed mitogen activated protein kinase phosphatase-1, indicating that Ca(2+) ions prolong the signaling cascade via activation of mitogen activated protein kinases. On the transcriptional level, expression of a dominant-negative mutant of the basic region leucine zipper protein c-Jun, a major constituent of the AP-1 transcription factor complex, or expression of a c-Jun-specific short hairpin RNA attenuated pregnenolone sulfate-induced AP-1 activation. In addition, stimulation of TRPM3 channels increased the transcriptional activation potential of the basic region leucine zipper protein ATF2. Inhibition of ATF2 target gene expression via expression of a dominant-negative mutant of ATF2 or expression of an ATF2-specific short hairpin RNA interfered with TRPM3-mediated stimulation of AP-1. Moreover, we show that a dominant-negative mutant of the ternary complex factor (TCF) Elk-1 attenuated the upregulation of AP-1 following stimulation of TRPM3 channels. Thus, c-Jun, ATF2, and TCFs are required to connect the intracellular signaling cascade elicited by activation of TRPM3 channels with enhanced transcription of AP-1-regulated genes. We conclude that pregnenolone sulfate-induced TRPM3 channel activation changes the gene expression pattern of the cells by activating transcription of c-Jun-, ATF2-, and TCF-controlled genes.
Cell apoptosis induced by endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress appears to be one of the main causes of myocardial necrosis following myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (MI/R). The C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) pathway is the main pathway through which apoptosis is induced during ER stress. Glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78) is an important protein involved in the CHOP pathway. The present study investigated the hypothesis that MI/R activates the CHOP pathway through signaling via a pathway involving PKR-like ER kinase (PERK), α-subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 (eIF2α) and activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2). Immunohistochemical staining of the heart tissues from spontaneously hypersensitive rats indicated that MI/R injury increases CHOP and GPR78 protein expression levels. To further analyze the mechanism by which MI/R injury induces apoptosis by ER stress, the expression levels of five marker proteins involved in the hypothetical PERK-eIF2α-ATF2 pathway were detected, namely PERK, phosphorylated PERK (P-PERK), eIF2α, phosphorylated eIF2α (P-eIF2α) and ATF2. An increase in the collective expression levels of these proteins would indicate that apoptosis was induced by this signaling pathway. In addition, the study also explored whether hypertension affects the signaling pathway of MI/R-induced myocardial apoptosis by treating spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) with captopril (an effective drug used to treat hypertension). Rats treated with captopril experienced a reduction in blood pressure to normal levels, but no marked differences in the expression levels of the tested proteins or in MI/R injury severity compared with those in untreated rats. These results suggest that MI/R activates the CHOP pathway during ER stress by activating the PERK-eIF2α-ATF2 pathway and that hypertension does not affect this signaling pathway.
Activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2) and its homolog ATF7 are phosphorylated at Thr-69/Thr-71 and at Thr-51/Thr-53, respectively, by stress-activated MAPKs regulating their transcriptional functions in G1 and S phases. However, little is known about the role of ATF2 and ATF7 in G2/M phase. Here, we show that Cdk1-cyclin B1 phosphorylates ATF2 at Thr-69/Thr-71 and ATF7 at Thr-51/Thr-53 from early prophase to anaphase in the absence of any stress stimulation. Knockdown of ATF2 or ATF7 decreases the rate of cell proliferation and the number of cells in M-phase. In particular, the knockdown of ATF7 severely inhibits cell proliferation and G2/M progression. The inducible expression of a mitotically nonphosphorylatable version of ATF7 inhibits G2/M progression despite the presence of endogenous ATF7. We also show that mitotic phosphorylation of ATF7 promotes the activation of Aurora kinases, which are key enzymes for early mitotic events. These results suggest that the Cdk1-mediated phosphorylation of ATF7 facilitates G2/M progression, at least in part, by enabling Aurora signaling.
Korean Red Ginseng (KRG) is a representative traditional herbal medicine with many different pharmacological properties including anticancer, anti-atherosclerosis, anti-diabetes, and anti-inflammatory activities. Only a few studies have explored the molecular mechanism of KRG-mediated anti-inflammatory activity.
We investigated the anti-inflammatory mechanisms of the protopanaxadiol saponin fraction (PPD-SF) of KRG using in vitro and in vivo inflammatory models.
PPD-SF dose-dependently diminished the release of inflammatory mediators [nitric oxide (NO), tumor necrosis factor-α, and prostaglandin E2], and downregulated the mRNA expression of their corresponding genes (inducible NO synthase, tumor necrosis factor-α, and cyclooxygenase-2), without altering cell viability. The PPD-SF-mediated suppression of these events appeared to be regulated by a blockade of p38, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and TANK (TRAF family member-associated NF-kappa-B activator)-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), which are linked to the activation of activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2) and interferon regulatory transcription factor 3 (IRF3). Moreover, this fraction also ameliorated HCl/ethanol/-induced gastritis via suppression of phospho-JNK2 levels.
These results strongly suggest that the anti-inflammatory action of PPD-SF could be mediated by a reduction in the activation of p38-, JNK2-, and TANK-binding-kinase-1-linked pathways and their corresponding transcription factors (ATF2 and IRF3).
Extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (EHCC) is the second most common primary hepatic malignancy, and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. We previously reported the decreased expression of WWOX in EHCC samples, but the underlying mechanism remained unclear.
Immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence were performed to examine the interaction of WWOX and P38 MAPK. Western blot was carried out to detect the expression of ATF2 and eIF-4E. MTT, colony formation, and Annexin V-FITC assays were performed to detect the cell proliferation and apoptosis. IHC was performed to detect the protein expression in clinical samples.
WWOX interacted with P38 and modulated its sub-cellular localization, leading to the cytoplasmic retention of P38. WWOX over-expression inhibited the phosphorylation of ATF2 and eIF-4E, while exogenous P38 reversed this reduction in phosphorylation. Ectopic expression of WWOX in EHCC cells led to inhibited proliferation and stimulated apoptosis in a P38 MAPK-dependent manner. In addition, we found a negative association of WWOX with nuclear localization of P38 and expression of phosphorylated ATF2 in EHCC samples.
Our data demonstrated the role of WWOX in EHCC progression, revealing the potential of WWOX/p-ATF2 as a novel diagnostic and prognostic marker, and therapeutic target for EHCC.
P38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) is a pro-apoptotic and pro-inflammatory protein that is activated in response to cellular stress. While p38 is known to be activated in response to cerebral ischemia, the precise role of p38 and its isoforms in ischemia-induced neuronal apoptosis remains unclear. In the current study, we examined the differential activation and functional roles of p38α and p38β MAPK isoforms in short-term ovariectomized female rats treated with either the neuroprotective ovarian hormone 17beta-estradiol (E2) or placebo in a model of global cerebral ischemia (GCI). GCI induced biphasic activation of total p38 in the hippocampal CA1, with peaks at 30 min and 1 day after 10-min ischemia-reperfusion. Further study demonstrated that activated p38α, but not p38β, translocated to the nucleus 30 min and 3 h post reperfusion, and that this event coincided with increased phosphorylation of activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2), a p38 target protein. Intriguingly, activated p38α was also enhanced in mitochondrial fractions of CA1 neurons 1 day after GCI, and there was loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, as well as enhanced cytochrome c release and caspase-3 cleavage at 2 days post GCI. Importantly, E2 prevented the biphasic activation of p38, as well as both nuclear and mitochondrial translocation of p38α after GCI, and these findings correlated with attenuation of mitochondrial dysfunction and delayed neuronal cell death in the hippocampal CA1. Furthermore, administration of a p38 inhibitor was able to mimic the neuroprotective effects of E2 in the hippocampal CA1 region by preventing nuclear and mitochondrial translocation of p38α, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, and neuronal apoptosis. As a whole, this study suggests that changes in subcellular localization of the activated p38α isoform are required for neuronal apoptosis following GCI, and that E2 exerts robust neuroprotection, in part, through dual inhibition of activation and subcellular trafficking of p38α.
JNK and p38 phosphorylate a diverse set of substrates and, consequently, can act in a context-dependent manner to either promote or inhibit tumor growth. Elucidating the functions of specific substrates of JNK and p38 is therefore critical for our understanding of these kinases in cancer. ATF2 is a phosphorylation-dependent transcription factor and substrate of both JNK and p38. Here, we show ATF2 suppresses tumor formation in an orthotopic model of liver cancer and cellular transformation in vitro. Furthermore, we find that suppression of tumorigenesis by JNK requires ATF2. We identify a transcriptional program activated by JNK via ATF2 and provide examples of JNK- and ATF2-dependent genes that block cellular transformation. Significantly, we also show that ATF2-dependent gene expression is frequently downregulated in human cancers, indicating that amelioration of JNK-ATF2-mediated suppression may be a common event during tumor development.
Many intracellular effects have been attributed to resveratrol, a polyphenolic phytoalexin found in grapes and in other plants, including the direct regulation of transcription. Here, we have analyzed the impact of resveratrol on gene transcription regulated by the cAMP response element (CRE).
Transcription of a chromatin-embedded reporter gene with CRE elements in its regulatory region was significantly elevated in resveratrol-treated 293 human embryonic kidney cells, hepatoma cells and neural stem cells. The CRE thus functions as resveratrol-responsive element. The polyphenols quercetin and naringenin also stimulated CRE-mediated gene transcription, but not in the range of resveratrol. The polyphenol curcumin, in contrast, had no effect upon CRE-regulated transcription. In addition, resveratrol stimulation upregulated the transcriptional activation potentials of the CRE-binding proteins CREB and ATF2.
CREB exhibits cytoprotective activity by stimulating CRE-regulated genes, while ATF2 has been identified as a tumor suppressor. The fact that resveratrol upregulates CRE-mediated gene transcription and enhances the transcriptional activation potentials of CREB and ATF2 suggests that cytoprotective and tumor suppressive activities of resveratrol may rely - at least in part - on the stimulation of CREB and ATF2-controlled target genes. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
The bone marrow (BM) microenvironment of multiple myeloma (MM) is reported to play a role in the biology of disease. In this study, we found that the extracellular BM microenvironment in MM contains a unique miRNA signature detectable by miRNA microarray and quantitative real-time PCR, which is partially represented in the peripheral blood. Eleven miRNAs were significantly decreased in both BM and serum of MM patients in comparison with controls. Evaluation of these miRNAs in plasma of a separate cohort of MM patients and controls confirmed significantly aberrant levels of let-7a, let-7b, let-7i, miR-15b, miR-16, and miR-20a in both serum and plasma. We then studied the myeloma precursor diseases and found that a subset of the MM miRNAs exhibited aberrant expression in monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance and smoldering myeloma. miRNA analysis of enriched CD138(+) plasma cells from MM and monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance found that most of the validated MM BM signature miRNAs were significantly decreased in MM plasma cells. Gene expression profiling indicated that multiple targets of the decreased miRNAs found increased expression in MM plasma cells, including ATF2, HRAS, HDAC4, TGFB1, TGFBR1, and mitogen-activated protein kinases. The findings suggest that these miRNAs are detectable in aberrant levels in the peripheral blood of patients with plasma cell proliferation and may play a role in aberrant plasma cell proliferation and disease progression.
Sorafenib is the current standard treatment for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but its efficacy is modest with low response rates and short response duration. Predictive biomarkers for sorafenib efficacy are necessary. However, efforts to determine biomarkers for sorafenib have led only to potential candidates rather than clinically useful predictors. Studies based on patient cohorts identified the potential of blood levels of angiopoietin-2, hepatocyte growth factor, insulin-like growth factor-1, and transforming growth factor-β1 for predicting sorafenib efficacy. Alpha-fetoprotein response, dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging, and treatment-related side effects may serve as early surrogate markers. Novel approaches based on super-responders or experimental mouse models may provide new directions in biomarker research. These studies identified tumor amplification of FGF3/FGF4 or VEGFA and tumor expression of phospho-Mapk14 and phospho-Atf2 as possible predictive markers that await validation. A group effort that considers various prognostic factors and proper collection of tumor tissues before treatment is imperative for the success of future biomarker research in advanced HCC.
Anticancer activity of a novel curcumin analog (E)-2-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzylidene)-5-((E)-3-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)acryloyl)cyclopentanone (CUR3d) was studied using a human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line (HepG2). The results showed that CUR3d completely inhibits the tumor cell proliferation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. CUR3d at 100 μmol/L activated the pro-apoptotic caspase-3 along with downregulation of anti-apoptotic BIRC5 and Bcl2. CUR3d treatment controlled the cancer cell growth by downregulating the expression of PI3K/Akt (Akt1, Akt2) pathway along with NF-κB. CUR3d down-regulated the members of epidermal growth receptor family (EGFR, ERBB3, ERBB2) and insulin like growth receptors (IGF1, IGF-1R, IGF2). This correlated with the downregulation of G-protein (RHOA, RHOB) and RAS (ATF2, HRAS, KRAS, NRAS) pathway signaling. CUR3d also arrested cell cycle via inhibition of CDK2, CDK4, CDK5, CDK9, MDM2, MDM4 and TERT genes. Cell cycle essential aurora kinases (AURKα, AURKβ) and polo-like kinases (PLK1, PLK2, PLK3) were also modulated by CUR3d. Topoisomerases (TOP2α, TOP2β), important factors in cancer cell immortality, as well as HIF-1α were downregulated following CUR3d treatment. The expression of protein kinase-C family (PRKC-A, PRKC-D, PRKC-E) was also attenuated by CUR3d. The downregulation of histone deacetylases (Class I, II, IV) and PARP I further strengthened the anticancer efficacy of CUR3d. Downregulation of carcinogenic cathepsins (CTSB, CTSD) and heat shock proteins exhibited CUR3d's potency as a potential immunological adjuvant. Finally, the non-toxic manifestation of CUR3d in healthy liver and lung cells along with downregulation of drug resistant gene ABCC1 further warrant need for advance investigations.
H₂O₂ mediates autocrine and paracrine signaling in the vasculature and can propagate endothelial dysfunction. However, it is not clear how endothelial cells withstand H₂O₂ exposure and promote H₂O₂-induced vascular remodeling. To understand the innate ability of endothelial cells for sustaining excess H₂O₂ exposure, we investigated the genotypic and functional regulation of redox systems in primary HUVECs following an H₂O₂ treatment. Primary HUVECs were exposed to transient H₂O₂ exposure and consistent H₂O₂ exposure. Following H₂O₂ treatments for 24, 48 and 72h, we measured O₂(-) production, mitochondrial membrane polarization (MMP), and gene expressions of pro-oxidative enzymes, peroxidase enzymes, and cytoprotective intermediates. Our results showed that the 24h H₂O₂ exposure significantly increased O₂(-) levels, hyperpolarized MMP, and downregulated CAT, GPX1, TXNRD1, NFE2L2, ASK1, and ATF2 gene expression in HUVECs. At 72h, HUVECs in both treatment conditions were shown to adapt to reduce O₂(-) levels and normalize MMP. An upregulation of GPX1, TXNRD1, and HMOX1 gene expression and a recovery of NFE2L2 and PRDX1 gene expression to control levels were observed in both consistent and transient treatments at 48 and 72h. The response of endothelial cells to excess levels of H₂O₂ involves a complex interaction amongst O₂(-) levels, mitochondrial membrane polarization and anti- and pro-oxidant gene regulation. As a part of this response, HUVECs induce cytoprotective mechanisms including the expression of peroxidase and antioxidant enzymes along with the downregulation of pro-apoptotic genes. This adaptation assists HUVECs to withstand subsequent exposures to H₂O₂.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been suggested to play critical roles in skeletal muscle in response to exercise. Previous study has shown that miR-761 was involved in a novel model regulating the mitochondrial network. However, its role in mitochondrial biogenesis remains poorly understood. Therefore, the current study was aimed to examine the effect of miR-761 on mitochondrial biogenesis in skeletal muscle. Real-time quantitative PCR analysis demonstrated that aberrantly expressed miR-761 is involved in exercise activity and miR-761 is decreased by exercise training compared with the sedentary control mice. miR-761 suppresses mitochondrial biogenesis of C2C12 myocytes by targeting the 3'-UTR of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) coactivator-1 (PGC-1α). Overexpression of miR-761 was capable of inhibiting the protein expression levels of PGC-1α. Moreover, miR-761 overexpression suppressed the p38 MAPK signaling pathway and down-regulated the expression of phosphorylated MAPK-activated protein kinase-2 (P-MK2), a downstream kinase of p38 MAPK. The phosphorylation of activating transcription factors 2 (ATF2) that plays a functional role in linking the activation of the p38 MAPK pathway to enhanced transcription of the PGC-1α was also inhibited by the overexpression of miR-761. These findings revealed a novel regulation mechanism for miR-761 in skeletal myocytes, and contributed to a better understanding of the modulation of skeletal muscle in response to exercise.
MiRNAs, a family of small non-coding RNAs, have emerged as novel post-transcriptional regulators of numerous cellular responses. Although the involvement of miRNAs in the regulation of neuroinflammation in various neurological diseases has been previously studied, their role in the production of inflammatory mediators during microglia activation is poorly understood. In this study, the role of miR-26a has been investigated in the modulation of inflammatory response in cultured microglia. Using real-time PCR, the expression of miR-26a was studied in toll-like receptors 4 stimulated primary mouse microglia. miR-26a expression was found to be rapidly reduced after the stimulation of toll-like receptors 4 in microglia. Over-expression of miR-26a significantly decreased the production of inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor α and IL-6, whereas knockdown of miR-26a increased the expression of these mediators. Furthermore, using in silico analysis, we identified that the activating transcription factor (ATF) 2 is directly targeted by miR-26a. This finding was confirmed by loss and gain of function studies. Similar to the effect of miR-26a over-expression, knockdown of activating transcription factor 2 inhibited the production of proinflammatory cytokines, particularly IL-6. Taken together, our results suggest the involvement of miR-26a in the regulation of the production of proinflammatory cytokines in microglia. We proposed that in microglia, activation of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) down-regulates miR-26a. The down-regulation of this miR increases expression of activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2). This event, in addition to the activation of ATF2 by c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), increases interleukin-6 (IL-6) production. On the other hand, miR-26a also increases the production of tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) by a mechanism independent of ATF2.
Aroma is one of the most important attributes defining wine quality in which yeasts play a crucial role, synthesizing aromatic compounds or releasing odourless conjugates. A present-day trend in winemaking consists of lowering fermentation temperature to achieve higher aroma production and retention. S. cerevisiae × S. kudriavzevii hybrids seem to have inherited beneficial traits from their parental species, like fermenting efficiently at low temperature or producing higher amounts of certain aromatic compounds. In this study, allelic composition and gene expression of the genes related to aroma synthesis in two genetically and phenotypically different S. cerevisiae × S. kudriavzevii hybrids, Lalvin W27 and VIN7, were compared and related to aroma production in microvinifications at 12 and 28 °C. In addition, the contribution of the allele coming from each parental to the overall expression was explored by RT-PCR.
The results indicated large differences in allele composition, gene expression and the contribution of each parental to the overall expression at the fermentation temperatures tested. Results obtained by RT-PCR showed that in ARO1 and ATF2 genes the S. kudriavzevii allele was more expressed than that of S. cerevisiae particularly at 12 °C.
This study revealed high differences regarding allele composition and gene expression in two S. cerevisiae × S. kudriavzevii hybrids, which may have led to different aroma profiles in winemaking conditions. The contribution of the alleles coming from each parental to the overall expression has proved to differently influence aroma synthesis. Besides, the quantitative contribution to the overall gene expression of the alleles coming from one parental strain or the other was clearly determined by the fermentation temperature for some genes.
The exocyst is a heterooctomeric complex well appreciated for its role in the dynamic assembly of specialized membrane domains. Accumulating evidence indicates that this macromolecular machine also serves as a physical platform that coordinates regulatory cascades supporting biological systems such as host defense signaling, cell fate, and energy homeostasis. The isolation of multiple components of the DNA damage response (DDR) as exocyst-interacting proteins, together with the identification of Sec8 as a suppressor of the p53 response, suggested functional interactions between the exocyst and the DDR. We found that exocyst perturbation resulted in resistance to ionizing radiation (IR) and accelerated resolution of DNA damage. This occurred at the expense of genomic integrity, as enhanced recombination frequencies correlated with the accumulation of aberrant chromatid exchanges. Sec8 perturbation resulted in the accumulation of ATF2 and RNF20 and the promiscuous accumulation of DDR-associated chromatin marks and Rad51 repairosomes. Thus, the exocyst supports DNA repair fidelity by limiting the formation of repair chromatin in the absence of DNA damage.
Protein Kinase Domain Containing, Cytoplasmic (PKDCC) is a protein kinase which has been implicated in longitudinal bone growth through regulation of chondrocytes formation. Nevertheless, the mechanism by which this occurs remains unknown. Here, we identified two new members of the PKDCC family, Pkdcc1 and Pkdcc2 from Xenopus laevis. Interestingly, our knockdown experiments revealed that these two proteins are both involved on blastopore and neural tube closure during gastrula and neurula stages, respectively. In vertebrates, tissue polarity and cell movement observed during gastrulation and neural tube closure are controlled by Wnt/Planar Cell Polarity (PCP) molecular pathway. Our results showed that Pkdcc1 and Pkdcc2 promote the recruitment of Dvl to the plasma membrane. But surprisingly, they revealed different roles in the induction of a luciferase reporter under the control of Atf2 promoter. While Pkdcc1 induces Atf2 expression, Pkdcc2 does not, and furthermore inhibits its normal induction by Wnt11 and Wnt5a. Altogether our data show, for the first time, that members of the PKDCC family are involved in the regulation of JNK dependent Wnt/PCP signaling pathway.
We have shown previously that preterm infants are at risk of necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC), an inflammatory bowel necrosis typically seen in infants born prior to 32 weeks' gestation, because of the developmental deficiency of transforming growth factor (TGF)-β2 in the intestine. The present study was designed to investigate all-trans retinoic acid (atRA) as an inducer of TGF-β2 in intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) and to elucidate the involved signaling mechanisms.
AtRA effects on intestinal epithelium were investigated using IEC6 cells. TGF-β2 expression was measured using reverse transcriptase-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and Western blots. Signaling pathways were investigated using Western blots, transiently-transfected/transduced cells, kinase arrays, chromatin immunoprecipitation, and selective small molecule inhibitors.
AtRA-treatment of IEC6 cells selectively increased TGF-β2 mRNA and protein expression in a time- and dose-dependent fashion, and increased the activity of the TGF-β2 promoter. AtRA effects were mediated via RhoA GTPase, Rho-associated, coiled-coil-containing protein kinase 1 (ROCK1), p38α MAPK, and activating transcription factor (ATF)-2. AtRA increased phospho-ATF2 binding to the TGF-β2 promoter and increased histone H2B acetylation in the TGF-β2 nucleosome, which is typically associated with transcriptional activation.
AtRA induces TGF-β2 expression in IECs via RhoA- and p38α MAPK-mediated activation of the transcription factor ATF2. Further studies are needed to investigate the role of atRA as a protective/therapeutic agent in gut mucosal inflammation.
Ovarian cancer, the most lethal gynecological cancer, related closely to tumor stage. High-grade ovarian cancer always results in a late diagnose and high recurrence, which reduce survival within five years. Until recently, curable therapy is still under research and anti-angiogenesis proves a promising way. Tumor-derived exosomes are essential in tumor migration and metastases such as angiogenesis is enhanced by exosomes. In our study, we have made comparison between high-grade and unlikely high-grade serous ovarian cancer cells on exosomal function of endothelial cells proliferation, migration and tube formation. Exosomes derived from high-grade ovarian cancer have a profound impact on angiogenesis with comparison to unlikely high-grade ovarian cancer. Proteomic profiles revealed some potential proteins involved in exosomal function of angiogenesis such as ATF2, MTA1, ROCK1/2 and so on. Therefore, exosomes plays an influential role in angiogenesis in ovarian serous cancer and also function more effectively in high-grade ovarian cancer cells.
Vascular injury is a serious complication of sepsis due to the gram-negative bacterium Neisseria meningitidis. One of the critical early steps in initiating this injury is via the interaction of leucocytes, particularly neutrophils, with adhesion molecules expressed on inflamed endothelium. We have previously demonstrated that both lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and non-LPS components of meningococci can induce very high levels of expression of the vascular endothelial cell adhesion molecule E-selectin, which is critical for early tethering and capture of neutrophils onto endothelium under flow. Using an LPS-deficient strain of meningococcus, we showed that very high levels of expression can be induced in primary endothelial cells, even in the context of weak activation of the major host signal transduction factor [nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)]. In this study, we show that the particular propensity for N. meningitidis to induce high levels of expression is regulated at a transcriptional level, and demonstrate a significant role for phosphorylation of the ATF2 transcription factor, likely via mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases, on the activity of the E-selectin promoter. Furthermore, inhibition of E-selectin expression in response to the lpxA- strain by a p38 inhibitor indicates a significant role of a p38-dependent MAPK signalling pathway in ATF2 activation. Collectively, these data highlight the role that LPS and other bacterial components have in modulating endothelial function and their involvement in the pathogenesis of meningococcal sepsis. Better understanding of these multiple mechanisms induced by complex stimuli such as bacteria, and the specific inflammatory pathways they activate, may lead to improved, focused interventions in both meningococcal and potentially bacterial sepsis more generally.
In the adrenal, the type I 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD3B1) is expressed exclusively in the zona glomerulosa (ZG), where aldosterone is produced. Angiotensin II (AngII) and potassium (K(+)) are the major physiological regulators of aldosterone synthesis. However, their respective roles in regulation of aldosterone synthesis are not fully defined, particularly in terms of transcriptional regulation of steroidogenic enzyme genes. We previously showed that AngII can stimulate expression of HSD3B1. But, K(+) responsiveness of this gene has remained unexplored. Here, we report that K(+) stimulation lacks the ability to induce HSD3B1 expression in human adrenocortical H295R cells. Both AngII and K(+) were able to enhance transcription of the aldosterone synthase gene (CYP11B2). Promoter analysis revealed that although both AngII and K(+) activate transcription from the Ca(2+)/cAMP-responsive element (CRE) located in the CYP11B2 promoter, the orphan nuclear receptor NGFIB-responsive element (NBRE) located in the HSD3B1 promoter fails to respond to K(+), being only able to enhance transcription after AngII treatment. We found that induction of de novo protein synthesis of NGFIB occurs only after AngII treatment. This sharply contrasts with the phosphorylation that occurs in response to both AngII and K(+) on the CREB/ATF family transcription factor ATF2. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay confirmed that the NGFIB protein occupies the HSD3B1 promoter only after AngII, while ATF2 binds to the CYP11B2 promoter in response to both AngII and K(+). These data provide evidence that downstream signals from AngII and K(+) can be uncoupled in the regulation of HSD3B1 in the human adrenocortical H295R cells.
The cAMP pathway is a universal signaling pathway regulating many cellular processes including metabolic routes, growth and differentiation. However, its effects on xenobiotic biotransformation and transport systems are poorly characterized. The effect of cAMP on expression and activity of GST and MRP2 was evaluated in Caco-2 cells, a model of intestinal epithelium. Cells incubated with the cAMP permeable analog dibutyryl cyclic AMP (db-cAMP: 1,10,100μM) for 48h exhibited a dose-response increase in GST class α and MRP2 protein expression. Incubation with forskolin, an activator of adenylyl cyclase, confirmed the association between intracellular cAMP and upregulation of MRP2. Consistent with increased expression of GSTα and MRP2, db-cAMP enhanced their activities, as well as cytoprotection against the common substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Pretreatment with protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitors totally abolished upregulation of MRP2 and GSTα induced by db-cAMP. In silico analysis together with experiments consisting of treatment with db-cAMP of Caco-2 cells transfected with a reporter construct containing CRE and AP-1 sites evidenced participation of these sites in MRP2 upregulation. Further studies involving the transcription factors CREB and AP-1 (c-JUN, c-FOS and ATF2) demonstrated increased levels of total c-JUN and phosphorylation of c-JUN and ATF2 by db-cAMP, which were suppressed by a PKA inhibitor. Co-immunoprecipitation and ChIP assay studies demonstrated that db-cAMP increased c-JUN/ATF2 interaction, with further recruitment to the region of the MRP2 promoter containing CRE and AP-1 sites. We conclude that cAMP induces GSTα and MRP2 expression and activity in Caco-2 cells via the PKA pathway, thus regulating detoxification of specific xenobiotics.
The objective of this study is to investigate the effect of deoxycholic acid (DCA) on rat pancreatic acinar cell line AR42J and the functional mechanisms of DCA on AR42J cells. AR42J cells were treated with various concentrations of DCA for 24 h and also treated with 0.4 mmol/L DCA for multiple times, and then, 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay was performed to detect the AR42J cell survival rate. Flow cytometric was used to detect the cell apoptosis and necrosis in AR42J cells treated with 0.4 mmol/L and 0.8 mmol/L DCA. The cells treated with phosphate buffer saline (PBS) were served as control. In addition, the DNA-binding activity assays of transcription factors (TFs) in nuclear proteins of cells treated with DCA were determined using Panomics Procarta Transcription Factor Assay Kit. The relative survival rates were markedly decreased (P < 0.05) in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Compared with control group, the cell apoptosis and necrosis ratio were both significantly elevated in 0.4 mmol/L DCA and 0.8 mmol/L DCA groups (P < 0.01). A significant increase (P < 0.05) in the activity of transcription factor 2 (ATF2), interferon-stimulated response element (ISRE), NKX-2.5, androgen receptor (AR), p53, and hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) was observed, and the activity of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR), activator protein 1 (AP1), and E2F1 was reduced (P < 0.05). In conclusion, DCA inhibited proliferation and induced apoptosis and necrosis in AR42J cells. The expression changes of related genes regulated by TFs might be the molecular mechanism of AR42J cell injury.
A novel 18 amino acid peptide PYC98 was demonstrated to inhibit JNK1 activity toward c-Jun. We observed a 5-fold increase in the potency of the retro-inverso form, D-PYC98 (a D-amino acid peptide in the reversed sequence) when compared with the inhibition achieved by L-PYC98, prompting our further evaluation of the D-PYC98 inhibitory mechanism. In vitro assays revealed that, in addition to the inhibition of c-Jun phosphorylation, D-PYC98 inhibited the JNK1-mediated phosphorylation of an EGFR-derived peptide, the ATF2 transcription factor, and the microtubule-regulatory protein DCX. JNK2 and JNK3 activities toward c-Jun were also inhibited, and surface plasmon resonance analysis confirmed the direct interaction of D-PYC98 and JNK1. Further kinetics analyses revealed the non-ATP competitive mechanism of action of D-PYC98 as a JNK1 inhibitor. The targeting of the JNK1 common docking site by D-PYC98 was confirmed by the competition of binding by TIJIP. However, as mutations of JNK1 R127 and E329 within the common docking domain did not impact on the affinity of the interaction with D-PYC98 measured by surface plasmon resonance analysis, other residues in the common docking site appear to contribute to the JNK1 interaction with D-PYC98. Furthermore, we found that D-PYC98 inhibited the related kinase p38 MAPK, suggesting a broader interest in developing D-PYC98 for possible therapeutic applications. Lastly, in evaluating the efficacy of this peptide to act as a substrate competitive inhibitor in cells, we confirmed that the cell-permeable D-PYC98-TAT inhibited c-Jun Ser63 phosphorylation during hyperosmotic stress. Thus, D-PYC98-TAT is a novel cell-permeable JNK inhibitor.
Host inflammatory responses to Plasmodium falciparum GPI (pfGPI) anchors are believed to play an important role in the pathophysiology of severe malaria. However, relatively little is known about the signal transduction pathways involved in pfGPI-stimulated inflammatory response and its potential contribution to severe malaria syndromes. In this study, we investigated the role of MAPK activation in pfGPI-induced cytokine secretion and examined the role of selected MAPKs in a model of cerebral malaria in vivo. We demonstrate that ERK1/2, JNK, p38, c-Jun, and activating transcription factor-2 became phosphorylated in pfGPI-stimulated macrophages. A JNK inhibitor (1,9-pyrazoloanthrone) inhibited pfGPI-induced phosphorylation of JNK, c-Jun, and activating transcription factor-2 and significantly decreased pfGPI-induced TNF-alpha secretion. pfGPI-stimulated JNK and c-Jun phosphorylation was absent in Jnk2(-/-) macrophages but unchanged in Jnk1(-/-) and Jnk3(-/-) macrophages compared with wild-type macrophages. Jnk2(-/-) macrophages secreted significantly less TNF-alpha in response to pfGPI than macrophages from Jnk1(-/-), Jnk3(-/-), and wild-type counterparts. Furthermore, we demonstrate a role for JNK2 in mediating inflammatory responses and severe malaria in vivo. In contrast to wild-type or Jnk1(-/-) mice, Jnk2(-/-) mice had lower levels of TNF-alpha in vivo and exhibited significantly higher survival rates when challenged with Plasmodium berghei ANKA. These results provide direct evidence that pfGPI induces TNF-alpha secretion through activation of MAPK pathways, including JNK2. These results suggest that JNK2 is a potential target for therapeutic interventions in severe malaria.
The c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) mediate degeneration and apoptosis in the brain. Particularly, JNK3 is considered to be a degenerative enzyme with c-Jun as a relevant substrate. The contribution of individual JNK isoforms, however, to pathological as well as to physiological processes remains to be defined. To analyze the effects of a single JNK isoform on neuronal cell death and differentiation, we transfected PC12 cells, which normally express only JNK1 and JNK2, with JNK3-p54. Transfected JNK3 significantly enhanced cell death after UV irradiation (0.5-6 J/cm(2)) and paclitaxel/taxol treatment (1-10 microm). In contrast, in the context of nerve growth factor-induced (10 or 50 ng/ml) differentiation of PC12 cells, JNK3 expression significantly increased the number and length of neurites. This functional dichotomy of JNK3 was mirrored by differential activation and induction of nuclear JNK substrates; although activating transcription factor-2 phosphorylation was enhanced by death signaling in response to UV and taxol, c-Jun protein expression and N-terminal phosphorylation were increased during nerve growth factor-induced differentiation. The absence of significant JNK activation or target phosphorylation in response to H(2)O(2) (60 microm) further supports the hypothesis that JNK isoforms are not merely injury- or stress-specific kinases but also have context-specific physiological functions.
The JNK protein kinase is a member of the MAP kinase group that is activated in response to dual phosphorylation on threonine and tyrosine. Ten JNK isoforms were identified in human brain by molecular cloning. These protein kinases correspond to alternatively spliced isoforms derived from the JNK1, JNK2 and JNK3 genes. The protein kinase activity of these JNK isoforms was measured using the transcription factors ATF2, Elk-1 and members of the Jun family as substrates. Treatment of cells with interleukin-1 (IL-1) caused activation of the JNK isoforms. This activation was blocked by expression of the MAP kinase phosphatase MKP-1. Comparison of the binding activity of the JNK isoforms demonstrated that the JNK proteins differ in their interaction with ATF2, Elk-1 and Jun transcription factors. Individual members of the JNK group may therefore selectively target specific transcription factors in vivo.
In this report we described the isolation of transcription factor E4BP4 by lambda gt11 expression cloning using a probe containing the CRE/ATF-like sequence located between -2764 bp and -2753 bp in the upstream regulatory region for the human IL-1 beta gene. DNaseI protection, gel mobility shift analysis, and cotransfection studies were performed to investigate the binding and functional properties of E4BP4 using IL-1 beta promoter sequences. By DNaseI footprinting, a protection pattern was generated over the CRE/ATF-like site and the flanking sequences by bacterially produced E4BP4. Competition experiment by gel shift assay indicated that E4BP4 bound specifically to CRE/ATF-like site, not NF kappa B-like site. In cotransfection studies, E4BP4 repressed promoter activity and this repression was mediated through the CRE/ATF-like site. Mutational analysis of E4BP4 suggested that the DNA binding as well as repression activities required leucine heptad repeat domain. Analysis of E4BP4 produced in Escherichia coli and Sf9 cells infected with recombinant baculovirus indicated that baculovirus produced protein showed enhanced binding to the CRE/ATF-like site compared to the E. coli-produced protein. Analysis of posttranslational modifications indicated that E4BP4 produced in Sf9 cells was phosphorylated and this phosphorylation was important for the DNA binding activity of E4BP4.
In solid tumors, resistance to therapy inevitably develops upon treatment with cytotoxic drugs or molecularly targeted therapies. Here, we describe a system that enables pooled shRNA screening directly in mouse hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) in vivo to identify genes likely to be involved in therapy resistance. Using a focused shRNA library targeting genes located within focal genomic amplifications of human HCC, we screened for genes whose inhibition increased the therapeutic efficacy of the multikinase inhibitor sorafenib. Both shRNA-mediated and pharmacological silencing of Mapk14 (p38α) were found to sensitize mouse HCC to sorafenib therapy and prolong survival by abrogating Mapk14-dependent activation of Mek-Erk and Atf2 signaling. Elevated Mapk14-Atf2 signaling predicted poor response to sorafenib therapy in human HCC, and sorafenib resistance of p-Mapk14-expressing HCC cells could be reverted by silencing Mapk14. Our results suggest that a combination of sorafenib and Mapk14 blockade is a promising approach to overcoming therapy resistance of human HCC.
Through a "tag-and-modify" protein chemical modification strategy, we site-selectively phosphorylated the activation loop of protein kinase p38α. Phosphorylation at natural (180) and unnatural (172) sites created two pure phospho-forms. p38α bearing only a single phosphocysteine (pCys) as a mimic of pThr at 180 was sufficient to switch the kinase to an active state, capable of processing natural protein substrate ATF2; 172 site phosphorylation did not. In this way, we chemically recapitulated triggering of a relevant segment of the MAPK-signaling pathway in vitro. This allowed detailed kinetic analysis of global and stoichiometric phosphorylation events catalyzed by p38α and revealed that site 180 is a sufficient activator alone and engenders dominant mono-phosphorylation activity. Moreover, a survey of kinase inhibition using inhibitors with different (Type I/II) modes (including therapeutically relevant) revealed unambiguously that Type II inhibitors inhibit phosphorylated p38α and allowed discovery of a predictive kinetic analysis based on cooperativity to distinguish Type I vs II.
The MAP kinase cascades, composed of a MAP3K, a MAP2K, and a MAPK, control switch responses to extracellular stimuli and stress in eukaryotes. The most important feature of these modules is thought to be the two double phosphorylation reactions catalyzed by MAP3Ks and MAP2Ks. We addressed whether the reactions are sequential or random in the p38 MAP kinase module. Mass spectrometry was used to track the phosphorylation of the MAP2K MEK6 by two MAP3Ks, TAO2 and ASK1, and the subsequent phosphorylation of p38α by MEK6/S*T* (where S (Ser) and T (Thr) are the two phosphorylation sites and * denotes phosphorylation). Both double phosphorylation reactions are precisely ordered. MEK6 is phosphorylated first on Thr-211 and then on Ser-207 by both MAP3Ks. This is the first demonstration of a precise reaction order for a MAP2K. p38α is phosphorylated first on Tyr-182 and then on Thr-180, the same reaction order observed previously in ERK2. Thus, intermediates were MEK6/ST* and p38α/TY*. Similarly, the phosphorylation of the p38α transcription factor substrate ATF2 occurs in a precise sequence. Progress curves for the appearance of intermediates were fit to kinetic models. The models confirmed the reaction order, revealed processivity in the phosphorylation of MEK6 by ASK1, and suggested that the order of phosphorylation is dictated by both binding and catalysis rates.
We have synthesized γ-[(18)O4]-ATP and used it to develop a non-radioactive and multiplex method. Significantly, this novel approach can be applied to any kinases without using a purified enzyme or a fluorescent substrate. Using this approach, the effectiveness and specificity of inhibitors on several kinases could be readily determined.
We reveal a novel pro-survival role for mammalian p38α in response to H(2)O(2), which involves an up-regulation of antioxidant defenses. The presence of p38α increases basal and H(2)O(2)-induced expression of the antioxidant enzymes: superoxide-dismutase 1 (SOD-1), SOD-2, and catalase through different mechanisms, which protects from reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and prevents cell death. p38α was found to regulate (i) H(2)O(2)-induced SOD-2 expression through a direct regulation of transcription mediated by activating transcription factor 2 (ATF-2) and (ii) H(2)O(2)-induced catalase expression through regulation of protein stability and mRNA expression and/or stabilization. As a consequence, SOD and catalase activities are higher in WT MEFs. We also found that this p38α-dependent antioxidant response allows WT cells to maintain an efficient activation of the mTOR/p70S6K pathway. Accordingly, the loss of p38α leads to ROS accumulation in response to H(2)O(2), which causes cell death and inactivation of mTOR/p70S6K signaling. This can be rescued by either p38α re-expression or treatment with the antioxidants, N-acetyl cysteine, or exogenously added catalase. Therefore, our results reveal a novel homeostatic role for p38α in response to oxidative stress, where ROS removal is favored by antioxidant enzymes up-regulation, allowing cell survival and mTOR/p70S6K activation.
The stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK) p38 can induce apoptosis, and its inhibition facilitates mammary tumorigenesis. We found that during mammary acinar morphogenesis in MCF-10A cells grown in three-dimensional culture, detachment of luminal cells from the basement membrane stimulated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinases 3 and 6 (MKK3/6) and p38α signaling to promote anoikis. p38α signaling increased transcription of the death-promoting protein BimEL by phosphorylating the activating transcription factor 2 (ATF-2) and increasing c-Jun protein abundance, leading to cell death by anoikis and acinar lumen formation. Inhibition of p38α or ATF-2 caused luminal filling reminiscent of that observed in ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). The mammary glands of MKK3/6 knockout mice (MKK3(-/-)/MKK6(+/- )) showed accelerated branching morphogenesis relative to those of wild-type mice, as well as ductal lumen occlusion due to reduced anoikis. This phenotype was recapitulated by systemic pharmacological inhibition of p38α and β (p38α/β) in wild-type mice. Moreover, the development of DCIS-like lesions showing marked ductal occlusion was accelerated in MMTV-Neu transgenic mice treated with inhibitors of p38α and p38β. We conclude that p38α is crucial for the development of hollow ducts during mammary gland development, a function that may be crucial to its ability to suppress breast cancer.
A novel inhibitor of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38), CMPD1, identified by high-throughput screening, is characterized herein. Unlike the p38 inhibitors described previously, this inhibitor is substrate selective and noncompetitive with ATP. In steady-state kinetics experiments, CMPD1 was observed to prevent the p38alpha-dependent phosphorylation (K(i)(app) = 330 nM) of the splice variant of mitogen-activated protein kinase-activated protein kinase 2 (MK2a) that contains a docking domain for p38alpha and p38beta, but it did not prevent the phosphorylation of ATF-2 (K(i)(app) > 20 microM). In addition to kinetic studies, isothermal titration calorimetry and surface plasmon resonance experiments were performed to elucidate the mechanism of inhibition. While isothermal titration calorimetry analysis indicated that CMPD1 binds to p38alpha, CMPD1 was not observed to compete with ATP for p38alpha, nor was it able to interrupt the binding of p38alpha to MK2a observed by surface plasmon resonance. Therefore, deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (DXMS) was employed to study the p38alpha.CMPD1 inhibitory complex, to provide new insight into the mechanism of substrate selective inhibition. The DXMS data obtained for the p38alpha.CMPD1 complex were compared to the data obtained for the p38alpha.MK2a complex and a p38alpha.active site binding inhibitor complex. Alterations in the DXMS behavior of both p38alpha and MK2a were observed upon complex formation, including but not limited to the interaction between the carboxy-terminal docking domain of MK2a and its binding groove on p38alpha. Alterations in the D(2)O exchange of p38alpha produced by CMPD1 suggest that the substrate selective inhibitor binds in the vicinity of the active site of p38alpha, resulting in perturbations to regions containing nucleotide binding pocket residues, docking groove residues (E160 and D161), and a Mg(2+) ion cofactor binding residue (D168). Although the exact mechanism of substrate selective inhibition by this novel inhibitor has not yet been disclosed, the results suggest that CMPD1 binding in the active site region of p38alpha induces perturbations that may result in the suboptimal positioning of substrates and cofactors in the transition state, resulting in selective inhibition of p38alpha activity.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways are central signaling elements, which translate and integrate stimuli from cell surface receptors into cytoplasmic and transcriptional responses. Here, we systematically compare the role of MAPKs in the nerve growth factor-induced long-term differentiation of PC12 cells and show the persistent nuclear and dose-dependent cytoplasmic activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) and the increasing nuclear and cytoplasmic activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs). Inhibition of ERK1/2 and JNKs significantly reduced neurite outgrowth. Both synergistically controlled the expression of c-Jun, the induction and/or phosphorylation of neurofilament, and the phosphorylation of Elk-1. JNKs alone were responsible for the phosphorylation of c-Jun and activating transcription factor 2 as well as for the expression of MAPK phosphatase 1. In contrast, p38alpha was only transiently activated and marginally involved in these processes. Thus, JNKs and ERK1/2 accomplish differentiation by signaling in parallel cascades that converge only at the target level.
Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) is a potent inducer of extracellular matrix (ECM) synthesis that leads to renal fibrosis. Intracellular signaling mechanisms involved in this process remain incompletely understood. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) is a major stress signal-transducing pathway, and we have previously reported activation of p38 MAPK by TGF-beta1 in rat mesangial cells and its role in the stimulation of pro-alpha1(I) collagen. In this study, we further investigated the mechanism of p38 MAPK activation by TGF-beta1 and the role of MKK3, an upstream MAPK kinase of p38 MAPK, by examining the effect of targeted disruption of the Mkk3 gene. We first isolated glomerular mesangial cells from MKK3-null (Mkk3-/-) and wild-type (Mkk3+/+) control mice. Treatment with TGF-beta1 induced rapid phosphorylation of MKK3 as well as p38 MAPK within 15 min in cultured wild-type (Mkk3+/+) mouse mesangial cells. In contrast, TGF-beta1 failed to induce phosphorylation of either MKK3 or p38 MAPK in MKK3-deficient (Mkk3-/-) mouse mesangial cells, indicating that MKK3 is required for TGF-beta1-induced p38 MAPK activation. TGF-beta1 selectively activated the p38 MAPK isoforms p38alpha and p38delta in wild-type (Mkk3+/+) mesangial cells, but not in MKK3-deficient (Mkk3-/-) mesangial cells. Thus, activation of p38alpha and p38delta is dependent on the activation of upstream MKK3 by TGF-beta1. Furthermore, MKK3 deficiency resulted in a selective disruption of TGF-beta1-stimulated up-regulation of pro-alpha1(I) collagen expression but not TGF-beta1 induction of fibronectin and PAI-1. These data demonstrate that the MKK3 is a critical component of the TGF-beta1 signaling pathway, and its activation is required for subsequent p38alpha and p38delta MAPK activation and collagen stimulation by TGF-beta1.
In order to study the role of Phe169 in p38alpha MAP kinase structure and function, wild-type p38alpha and five p38alpha DFG motif mutants were examined in vitro for phosphorylation by MKK6, kinase activity toward ATF2 substrate, thermal stability, and X-ray crystal structure. All six p38alpha variants were efficiently phosphorylated by MKK6. However, only one activated p38alpha mutant (F169Y) possessed measurable kinase activity (1% compared to wild-type). The loss of kinase activity among the DFG mutants may result from an inability to correctly position Asp168 in the activated form of p38alpha. Two mutations significantly increased the thermal stability of p38alpha (F169A DeltaTm = 1.3 degrees C and D168G DeltaTm = 3.8 degrees C), and two mutations significantly decreased the stability of p38alpha (F169R DeltaTm = -3.2 degrees C and F169G DeltaTm = -4.7 degrees C). Interestingly, X-ray crystal structures of two thermally destabilized p38alpha-F169R and p38alpha-F169G mutants revealed a DFG-OUT conformation in the absence of an inhibitor molecule. This DFG-OUT conformation, termed alpha-DFG-OUT, is different from the ones previously identified in p38alpha crystal structures with bound inhibitors and postulated from high-temperature molecular dynamics simulations. Taken together, these results indicate that Phe169 is optimized for p38alpha functional activity and structural dynamics, rather than for structural stability. The alpha-DFG-OUT conformation observed for p38alpha-F169R and p38alpha-F169G may represent a naturally occurring intermediate state of p38alpha that provides access for binding of allosteric inhibitors. A model of the local forces driving the DFG IN-OUT transition in p38alpha is proposed.
Scanning of the genome for selection signatures between breeds may play important role in understanding the underlie causes for observable phenotypic variations. The discovery of high density single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) provide a useful starting point to perform genome-wide scan in pig populations in order to identify loci/candidate genes underlie phenotypic variation in pig breeds and facilitate genetic improvement programs. However, prior to this study genomic region under selection in commercially selected Berkshire and Korean native pig breeds has never been detected using high density SNP markers. To this end, we have genotyped 45 animals using Porcine SNP60 chip to detect selection signatures in the genome of the two breeds by using the F ST approach.
In the comparison of Berkshire and KNP breeds using the FDIST approach, a total of 1108 outlier loci (3.48%) were significantly different from zero at 99% confidence level with 870 of the outlier SNPs displaying high level of genetic differentiation (F ST ≥0.490). The identified candidate genes were involved in a wide array of biological processes and molecular functions. Results revealed that 19 candidate genes were enriched in phosphate metabolism (GO: 0006796; ADCK1, ACYP1, CAMK2D, CDK13, CDK13, ERN1, GALK2, INPP1; MAK, MAP2K5, MAP3K1, MAPK14, P14KB, PIK3C3, PRKC1, PTPRK, RNASEL, THBS1, BRAF, VRK1). We have identified a set of candidate genes under selection and have known to be involved in growth, size and pork quality (CART, AGL, CF7L2, MAP2K5, DLK1, GLI3, CA3 and MC3R), ear morphology and size (HMGA2 and SOX5) stress response (ATF2, MSRB3, TMTC3 and SCAF8) and immune response ( HCST and RYR1).
Some of the genes may be used to facilitate genetic improvement programs. Our results also provide insights for better understanding of the process and influence of breed development on the pattern of genetic variations.
Alternate splicing of key signaling molecules in the Toll-like receptor (Tlr) cascade has been shown to dramatically alter the signaling capacity of inflammatory cells, but it is not known how common this mechanism is. We provide transcriptional evidence of widespread alternate splicing in the Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, derived from a systematic analysis of the FANTOM3 mouse data set. Functional annotation of variant proteins was assessed in light of inflammatory signaling in mouse primary macrophages, and the expression of each variant transcript was assessed by splicing arrays.
A total of 256 variant transcripts were identified, including novel variants of Tlr4, Ticam1, Tollip, Rac1, Irak1, 2 and 4, Mapk14/p38, Atf2 and Stat1. The expression of variant transcripts was assessed using custom-designed splicing arrays. We functionally tested the expression of Tlr4 transcripts under a range of cytokine conditions via northern and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The effects of variant Mapk14/p38 protein expression on macrophage survival were demonstrated.
Members of the Toll-like receptor signaling pathway are highly alternatively spliced, producing a large number of novel proteins with the potential to functionally alter inflammatory outcomes. These variants are expressed in primary mouse macrophages in response to inflammatory mediators such as interferon-gamma and lipopolysaccharide. Our data suggest a surprisingly common role for variant proteins in diversification/repression of inflammatory signaling.
An activated form of the human cytokine-suppressive anti-inflammatory drug-binding protein 2 (CSBP2) kinase was expressed in Spodoptera frugiperda (SF9) cells from a baculovirus vector. To maximize expression and to facilitate purification of the recombinant protein, CSBP2 kinase was expressed as a carboxy-terminal fusion protein to glutathione S-transferase (GST). Under optimal conditions, 2-3 mg of GST-CSBP2 could be obtained per liter of infected cell culture. The fusion protein was easily purified from the soluble fraction of the total cell lysate under nondenaturing conditions by using a glutathione-Sepharose 4B affinity resin. As expected, the purified GST-CSBP2 fusion protein was approximately 68 kDa as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis and reacted with antibodies directed toward either the GST or the CSBP amino terminus. To obtain activated CSBP2, SF9 cells were coinfected with two recombinant baculovirus vectors: one that directed the synthesis of the GST-CSBP2 fusion protein and a second vector that directed the synthesis of a constitutively active form of the CSBP activating kinase, MKK3. Coexpression of GST-CSBP2 kinase with the MKK3 activator increased GST-CSBP2 activity 8- to 10-fold based on the ability of GST-CSBP2 to phosphorylate the substrate, myelin basic protein (MBP), and the ATF2 transcription factor, in vitro. Moreover, activated GST-CSBP2 was capable of activating a bacterially derived mitogen-activated protein kinase-activating protein kinase 2 in vitro. The activity of insect-derived GST-CSBP2 was also inhibited by the CSBP inhibitor, SB202190. We anticipate that the preparation and purification techniques described in this study will facilitate further biochemical characterization of this kinase.
Enhanced vascular arginase activity can impair endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation by decreasing l-arginine availability to endothelial nitric oxide (NO) synthase, thereby reducing NO production and uncoupling NOS function. Elevated angiotensin II (Ang II) is a key component of endothelial dysfunction in many cardiovascular diseases and has been linked to elevated arginase activity. In this study we explored the signaling pathway leading to increased arginase expression/activity in response to Ang II in bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAEC). Our previous studies indicate involvement of p38 mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) in Ang II-induced arginase upregulation and reduced NO production. In this study, we further investigated the Ang II-transcriptional regulation of arginase 1 in endothelial cells. Our results indicate the involvement of ATF-2 transcription factor of the AP1 family in arginase 1 upregulation and in limiting NO production. Using small interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting ATF-2, we showed that this transcription factor is required for Ang II-induced arginase 1 gene upregulation and increased arginase 1 expression and activity, leading to reduced NO production. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay further confirmed the involvement of ATF-2. Moreover, our data indicate that p38 MAPK phosphorylates ATF-2 in response to Ang II. Collectively, our results indicate that Ang II increases endothelial arginase activity/expression through a p38 MAPK/ATF-2 pathway leading to reduced endothelial NO production. These signaling steps might be therapeutic targets for preventing vascular endothelial dysfunction associated with elevated arginase activity/expression.
Extracellular nucleotides that constitute a "danger signal" play an important role in the regulation of immune responses. However, the function and mechanism of extracellular UDP and P2Y6 in antiviral immunity remain unknown. In this study, we demonstrated the in vitro and in vivo protection of UDP/P2Y6 signaling in vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) infection. First, we demonstrated that VSV-infected cells secrete UDP from the cytoplasm as a danger signal to arouse surrounding cells. Meanwhile, expression of the UDP-specific receptor P2Y6 also was enhanced by VSV. Consequently, UDP protects RAW 264.7 cells, murine embryonic fibroblasts, bone marrow-derived macrophages, and L929 cells from VSV and GFP lentivirus infection. This protection can be blocked by the P2Y6 selective antagonist MRS2578 or IFN-α/β receptor-blocking Ab. VSV-induced cell death and virus replication were both enhanced significantly by knocking down and knocking out P2Y6 in different cells. Mechanistically, UDP facilitates IFN-β secretion through the p38/JNK- and ATF-2/c-Jun-signaling pathways, which are crucial in promoting antiviral immunity. Interestingly, UDP was released through a caspase-cleaved pannexin-1 channel in VSV-induced apoptotic cells and protected cells from infection through P2Y6 receptor in an autocrine or paracrine manner. Furthermore, UDP also protected mice from VSV infection through P2Y6 receptors in an acute neurotropic infection mouse model. Taken together, these results demonstrate the important role of extracellular UDP and P2Y6 as a danger signal in antiviral immune responses and suggest a potential therapeutic role for UDP/P2Y6 in preventing and controlling viral diseases.
The p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase signaling cassette has been implicated in stress and immunity in evolutionarily diverse species. In response to a wide variety of physical, chemical and biological stresses p38 kinases phosphorylate various substrates, transcription factors of the ATF family and other protein kinases, regulating cellular adaptation to stress. The Drosophila genome encodes three p38 kinases named p38a, p38b and p38c. In this study, we have analyzed the role of p38c in the Drosophila intestine. The p38c gene is expressed in the midgut and upregulated upon intestinal infection. We showed that p38c mutant flies are more resistant to infection with the lethal pathogen Pseudomonas entomophila but are more susceptible to the non-pathogenic bacterium Erwinia carotovora 15. This phenotype was linked to a lower production of Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) in the gut of p38c mutants, whereby the transcription of the ROS-producing enzyme Duox is reduced in p38c mutant flies. Our genetic analysis shows that p38c functions in a pathway with Mekk1 and Mkk3 to induce the phosphorylation of Atf-2, a transcription factor that controls Duox expression. Interestingly, p38c deficient flies accumulate lipids in the intestine while expressing higher levels of antimicrobial peptide and metabolic genes. The role of p38c in lipid metabolism is mediated by the Atf3 transcription factor. This observation suggests that p38c and Atf3 function in a common pathway in the intestine to regulate lipid metabolism and immune homeostasis. Collectively, our study demonstrates that p38c plays a central role in the intestine of Drosophila. It also reveals that many roles initially attributed to p38a are in fact mediated by p38c.
TLRs recognize pathogen-expressed Ags and elicit host-protective immune response. Although TLR2 forms heterodimers with TLR1 or TLR6, recognizing different ligands, differences in the functions of these heterodimers remain unknown. In this study, we report that in Leishmania major-infected macrophages, the expression of TLR1 and TLR2, but not TLR6, increased; TLR2-TLR2 association increased, but TLR2-TLR6 association diminished. Lentivirus-expressed TLR1-short hairpin RNA (shRNA) or TLR2-shRNA administration reduced, but TLR6-shRNA increased L. major infection in BALB/c mice. Corroboratively, Pam3CSK4 (TLR1-TLR2 ligand) and peptidoglycan (TLR2 ligand) increased L. major infection but reduced TLR9 expression, whereas pegylated bisacycloxypropylcysteine (BPPcysMPEG; TLR2-TLR6 ligand) reduced L. major number in L. major-infected macrophages, accompanied by increased TLR9 expression, higher IL-12 production, and inducible NO synthase expression. Whereas MyD88, Toll/IL-1R adaptor protein, and TNFR-α-associated factor 6 recruitments to TLR2 were not different in Pam3CSK4-, peptidoglycan-, or BPPcysMPEG-treated macrophages, only BPPcysMPEG enhanced p38MAPK and activating transcription factor 2 activation. BPPcysMPEG conferred antileishmanial functions to L. major-infected BALB/c-derived T cells in a macrophage-T cell coculture and in BALB/c mice; the protection was TLR6 dependent and IL-12 dependent, and it was accompanied by reduced regulatory T cell number. BPPcysMPEG administration during the priming with fixed L. major protected BALB/c mice against challenge L. major infection; the protection was accompanied by low IL-4 and IL-10, but high IFN-γ productions and reduced regulatory T cells. Thus, BPPcysMPEG, a novel diacylated lipopeptide ligand for TLR2-TLR6 heterodimer, induces IL-12-dependent, inducible NO synthase-dependent, T-reg-sensitive antileishmanial protection. The data reveal a novel dimerization partner-dependent duality in TLR2 function.
Activating transcription factor-2 (ATF-2) has been implicated as a tumour suppressor in breast cancer (BC). c-JUN N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 MAPK phosphorylate ATF-2 within the activation domain (AD), which is required for its transcriptional activity. To date, the role of ATF-2 in determining response to endocrine therapy has not been explored. Effects of ATF-2 loss in the oestrogen receptor (ER)-positive luminal BC cell line MCF7 were explored, as well as its role in response to tamoxifen treatment. Genome-wide chromatin binding patterns of ATF-2 when phosphorylated within the AD in MCF-7 cells were determined using ChIP-seq. The expression of ATF-2 and phosphorylated ATF-2 (pATF-2-Thr71) was determined in a series of 1,650 BC patients and correlated with clinico-pathological features and clinical outcome. Loss of ATF-2 diminished the growth-inhibitory effects of tamoxifen, while tamoxifen treatment induced ATF-2 phosphorylation within the AD, to regulate the expression of a set of 227 genes for proximal phospho-ATF-2 binding, involved in cell development, assembly and survival. Low expression of both ATF-2 and pATF-2-Thr71 was significantly associated with aggressive pathological features. Furthermore, pATF-2 was associated with both p-p38 and pJNK1/2 (< 0.0001). While expression of ATF-2 is not associated with outcome, pATF-2 is associated with longer disease-free (p = 0.002) and BC-specific survival in patients exposed to tamoxifen (p = 0.01). Furthermore, multivariate analysis confirmed pATF-2-Thr71 as an independent prognostic factor. ATF-2 is important for modulating the effect of tamoxifen and phosphorylation of ATF-2 within the AD at Thr71 predicts for improved outcome for ER-positive BC receiving tamoxifen.
Although the liver is generally considered the main site of production of FGF21 (fibroblast growth factor-21), high FGF21 levels have been found to be associated with neuromuscular mitochondrial genetic diseases, and there are indications that the muscle may be a relevant site of FGF21 production under conditions of muscular mitochondrial stress. In the present study, we found that expression and release of FGF21 was associated with myogenic differentiation, and we identified MyoD as a major controller of FGF21 gene transcription. Mimicking mitochondrial dysfunction using respiratory chain/oxidative phosphorylation inhibitors resulted in enhanced expression and release of FGF21 by muscle cells. The increased production of reactive oxygen species, subsequent induction of p38 MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) and activation of an ATF2 (activating transcription factor 2)-binding site at the proximal promoter region of the FGF21 gene was found to be a major mechanism linking mitochondrial dysfunction with enhanced FGF21 gene transcription in myogenic cells. The myogenic factor MyoD was required for the induction of FGF21 gene transcription by mitochondrial dysfunction, thus explaining the preferential response of muscle cells to mitochondrial dysfunction-induced FGF21 expression and secretion. FGF21 release by muscle cells in response to mitochondrial alterations may represent a physiological mechanism by which the sensing of internal energetic status by muscles results in the release of FGF21 to favour systemic metabolic adaptations.
Radioresistance is one of the obstacles to the effective radiotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer. Soluble factors in the tumour microenvironment are often implicated in radioresistance but the underpinning mechanism(s) remain largely elusive. We herein studied the wholesome effect of autocrine cytokines and growth factors in the form of self-conditioned medium (CM) on the radiosensitivity of A549 cells. A549 cells grown in CM exhibited radioresistance which was associated with increased survival and DNA repair. CM induced pro-survival pathways through increased intracellular cAMP and phosphorylation of JNK and p38. Downstream to JNK/p38 signalling, ATF-2 phosphorylated at Thr69/71 was accompanied with its increased transcriptional activity in CM treated cells. Pre-treatment with cAMP inhibitor and silencing of ATF-2 abrogated the CM-induced survival. Interestingly, in cells treated with CM followed by radiation, ATF-2 was found to be switched over from transcription factor to DNA damage response protein. In CM treated cells, after γ-radiation p-ATF-2(Thr69/71) and subsequently the transcriptional activity of ATF-2 were declined with simultaneous rise in p-ATF-2(Ser490/498). Immunoprecipitation/immunoblotting and inhibitor studies showed that phosphorylation of ATF-2 at Ser490/498 was mediated by ATM. Moreover, p-ATF-2(Ser490/498) was found to be co-localised with γ-H2AX in DNA repair foci in CM-treated cells. The DNA repair activity of ATF-2 was assisted with higher activity MRN complex in cells grown in CM. Our study revealed that, autocrine soluble factors regulate dual but differential role of ATF-2 as a transcription factor or DNA repair protein, which collectively culminate in radioresistance of A549 cells.
Current views on the control of IL-23 production focus on the regulation of il23a, the gene encoding IL-23 p19, by NF-κB in combination with other transcription factors. C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP), X2-Box-binding protein 1 (XBP1), activator protein 1 (AP1), SMAD, CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBPβ), and cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) have been involved in response to LPS, but no data are available regarding the mechanism triggered by the fungal mimic and β-glucan-containing stimulus zymosan, which produces IL-23 and to a low extent the related cytokine IL-12 p70. Zymosan induced the mobilization of CHOP from the nuclear fractions to phagocytic vesicles. Hypha-forming Candida also induced the nuclear disappearance of CHOP. Assay of transcription factor binding to the il23a promoter showed an increase of Thr(P)-71-Thr(P)-69-activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2) binding in response to zymosan. PKC and PKA/mitogen- and stress-activated kinase inhibitors down-regulated Thr(P)-71-ATF2 binding to the il23a promoter and il23a mRNA expression. Consistent with the current concept of complementary phosphorylations on N-terminal Thr-71 and Thr-69 of ATF2 by ERK and p38 MAPK, MEK, and p38 MAPK inhibitors blunted Thr(P)-69-ATF2 binding. Knockdown of atf2 mRNA with siRNA correlated with inhibition of il23a mRNA, but it did not affect the expression of il12/23b and il10 mRNA. These data indicate the following: (i) zymosan decreases nuclear proapoptotic CHOP, most likely by promoting its accumulation in phagocytic vesicles; (ii) zymosan-induced il23a mRNA expression is best explained through coordinated κB- and ATF2-dependent transcription; and (iii) il23a expression relies on complementary phosphorylation of ATF2 on Thr-69 and Thr-71 dependent on PKC and MAPK activities.
Vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) regulates many aspects of vascular physiology. VEGF-A stimulates signal transduction pathways that modulate endothelial outputs such as cell migration, proliferation, tubulogenesis, and cell-cell interactions. Multiple VEGF-A isoforms exist, but the biological significance of this is unclear. Here we analyzed VEGF-A isoform-specific stimulation of VCAM-1 gene expression, which controls endothelial-leukocyte interactions, and show that this is dependent on both ERK1/2 and activating transcription factor-2 (ATF-2). VEGF-A isoforms showed differential ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK phosphorylation kinetics. A key feature of VEGF-A isoform-specific ERK1/2 activation and nuclear translocation was increased phosphorylation of ATF-2 on threonine residue 71 (T71). Using reverse genetics, we showed ATF-2 to be functionally required for VEGF-A-stimulated endothelial VCAM-1 gene expression. ATF-2 knockdown blocked VEGF-A-stimulated VCAM-1 expression and endothelial-leukocyte interactions. ATF-2 was also required for other endothelial cell outputs, such as cell migration and tubulogenesis. In contrast, VCAM-1 was essential only for promoting endothelial-leukocyte interactions. This work presents a new paradigm for understanding how soluble growth factor isoforms program complex cellular outputs and responses by modulating signal transduction pathways.
The vascular endothelium is specifically sensitive to oxidative stress, and this is one of the mechanisms that causes widespread endothelial dysfunction in most cardiovascular diseases and disorders. Protection against reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated oxidative damage via antioxidant mechanisms is essential for tissue maintenance and shows therapeutic potential for patients suffering from cardiovascular and metabolic disorders. Salvianolic acid B (SalB), a natural bioactive component known from Traditional Chinese Medicine, has been reported to exert cellular protection in various types of cells. However, the underlying mechanisms involved are not fully understood. Here, we showed that SalB significantly promoted the migratory and tube formation abilities of human bone marrow derived-endothelial progenitor cells (BM-EPCs) in vitro, and substantially abrogated hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced cell damage. SalB down-regulated Nox4 and eNOS, as well as nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-oxidase expression upon H2O2 induction that in turn prevents oxidative-induced endothelial dysfunction. Moreover, SalB suppressed the Bax/Bcl-xL ratio and caspase-3 activation after H2O2 induction. Furthermore, our results provide mechanistic evidence that activation of the mTOR/p70S6K/4EBP1 pathways is required for both SalB-mediated angiogenic and protective effects against oxidative stress-induced cell injury in BM-EPCs. Suppression of MKK3/6-p38 MAPK-ATF2 and ERK1/2 signaling pathways by SalB significantly protected BM-EPCs against cell injury caused by oxidative stress via reduction of intracellular ROS levels and apoptosis. Taken together, by providing a mechanistic insight into the modulation of redox states in BM-EPCs by SalB, we suggest that SalB has a strong potential of being a new proangiogenic and cytoprotective therapeutic agent with applications in the field of endothelial injury-mediated vascular diseases.
Korean Red Ginseng (KRG) is one of the representative traditional herbal medicines prepared from Panax ginseng Meyer (Araliaceae) in Korea. It has been reported that KRG exhibits a lot of different biological actions such as anti-aging, anti-fatigue, anti-stress, anti-atherosclerosis, anti-diabetic, anti-cancer, and anti-inflammatory activities. Although systematic studies have investigated how KRG is able to ameliorate various inflammatory diseases, its molecular inhibitory mechanisms had not been carried out prior to this study.
In order to investigate these mechanisms, we evaluated the effects of a water extract of Korean Red Ginseng (KRG-WE) on the in vitro inflammatory responses of activated RAW264.7 cells, and on in vivo gastritis and peritonitis models by analyzing the activation events of inflammation-inducing transcription factors and their upstream kinases.
KRG-WE reduced the production of nitric oxide (NO), protected cells against NO-induced apoptosis, suppressed mRNA levels of inducible NO synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, and interferon (IFN)-β, ameliorated EtOH/HCl-induced gastritis, and downregulated peritoneal exudate-derived NO production from lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-injected mice. The inhibition of these inflammatory responses by KRG-WE was regulated through the suppression of p38, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) and by subsequent inhibition of activating transcription factor (ATF)-2, cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), and IRF-3 activation. Of ginsensides included in this extract, interestingly, G-Rc showed the highest inhibitory potency on IRF-3-mediated luciferase activity.
These results strongly suggest that the anti-inflammatory activities of KRG-WE could be due to its inhibition of the p38/JNK/TBK1 activation pathway.
Recovery of mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) or activation of alternative pathways, such as the PI3K/AKT/mTOR, are involved in acquired resistance to BRAF inhibitors which represent the first-line treatment of BRAF-mutated metastatic melanoma. We recently demonstrated that 6-((7-nitrobenzo[c][1,2,5]oxadiazol-4-yl)thio)hexan-1-ol (NBDHEX) and its water soluble analog 2-(2-(2-((7-nitrobenzo[c][1,2,5]oxadiazol-4-yl)thio)ethoxy)ethoxy)ethanol (MC3181) trigger apoptosis in BRAF V600E mutated melanoma cells through activation of the MAPK c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Herein, we investigated whether NBDHEX and MC3181 might exert antitumor activity against BRAF V600E mutated human melanoma cells rendered resistant to the BRAF inhibitor vemurafenib. To this aim we generated a subline of A375 melanoma resistant in vitro and in vivo to vemurafenib (A375-VR8) and characterized by NRAS G13R mutation, high basal levels of CRAF protein and phospho-activation of AKT. In these cells ERK phosphorylation was not significantly down-modulated by vemurafenib concentrations capable of abrogating ERK phosphorylation in sensitive A375 cells. Both NBDHEX and MC3181 induced marked antiproliferative and apoptotic effects in A375-VR8 cells and, at equitoxic concentrations, caused a strong phosphorylation of JNK, p38, and of the downstream mediators of apoptosis ATF2 and p53. Drug treatment further increased ERK phosphorylation, which was required for the cellular response to the NBD derivatives, as apoptosis was antagonized by the ERK inhibitor FR180204. Finally, in vivo administration of MC3181 provoked JNK activation at the tumor site and markedly reduced A375-VR8 growth. These evidences strongly suggest that the activation of multiple pro-apoptotic MAPK pathways by MC3181 might represent a new strategy for the treatment of melanoma resistant to BRAF inhibitors.
Reduced tissue levels of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) and functional impairment of endothelium are frequently observed in patients with diabetes and cardiovascular disease. The vascular endothelium is specifically sensitive to oxidative stress, and this is one of the mechanisms that causes widespread endothelial dysfunction in most cardiovascular diseases and disorders. Hence attention has increasingly been paid to enhance mobilization and differentiation of EPCs for therapeutic purposes. The aim of this study was to investigate whether Icariin, a natural bioactive component known from traditional Chinese Medicine, can induce angiogenic differentiation and inhibit oxidative stress-induced cell dysfunction in bone marrow-derived EPCs (BM-EPCs), and, if so, through what mechanisms. We observed that treatment of BM-EPCs with Icariin significantly promoted cell migration and capillary tube formation, substantially abrogated hydrogen peroxide (H2 O2 )-induced apoptotic and autophagic programmed cell death that was linked to the reduced intracellular reactive oxygen species levels and restored mitochondrial membrane potential. Icariin downregulated endothelial nitric oxide synthase 3, as well as nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate-oxidase expression upon H2 O2 induction. These antiapoptotic and antiautophagic effects of Icariin are possibly mediated by restoring the loss of mammalian target of rapamycin /p70S6K/4EBP1 phosphorylation as well as attenuation of ATF2 and ERK1/2 protein levels after H2 O2 treatment. In summary, favorable modulation of the angiogenesis and redox states in BM-EPCs make Icariin a promising proangiogenic agent both enhancing vasculogenesis and protecting against endothelial dysfunction.
The ILK, PINCH, Parvin (IPP) complex regulates adhesion and migration via binding of ILK to β1 integrin and α-parvin thus linking focal adhesions to actin cytoskeleton. ILK also binds the adaptor protein PINCH which connects signaling proteins including Rsu1 to the complex. A recent study of Rsu1 and PINCH1 in non-transformed MCF10A human mammary epithelial cells revealed that the siRNA-mediated depletion of either Rsu1 or PINCH1 decreased the number of focal adhesions (FAs) and altered the distribution and localization of FA proteins. This correlated with reduced adhesion, failure to spread or migrate in response to EGF and a loss of actin stress fibers and caveolae. The depletion of Rsu1 caused significant reduction in PINCH1 implying that Rsu1 may function in part by regulating levels of PINCH1. However, Rsu1, but not PINCH1, was required for EGF-induced activation of p38 Map kinase and ATF2 phosphorylation, suggesting a Rsu1 function independent from the IPP complex. Reconstitution of Rsu1-depleted cells with a Rsu1 mutant (N92D) that does not bind to PINCH1 failed to restore FAs or migration but did promote IPP-independent spreading and constitutive as well as EGF-induced p38 activation. In this commentary we discuss p38 activity in adhesion and how Rsu1 expression may be linked to Map kinase kinase (MKK) activation and detachment-induced stress kinase signaling.
Zfat, which is a nuclear protein harboring an AT-hook domain and 18-repeats of C2H2 zinc-finger motif, is highly expressed in immune-related tissues, including the thymus and spleen. T cell specific deletion of the Zfat gene by crossing Zfat(f/f) mice with LckCre mice yields a significant reduction in the number of CD4(+) CD8(+) double-positive (DP) thymocytes. However, physiological role for Zfat in T cell development in the thymus remains unknown. Here, we found that Zfat-deficient DP thymocytes in Zfat(f/f)-LckCre mice were susceptible to apoptosis both at an unstimulated state and in response to T cell receptor (TCR)-stimulation. The phosphorylation levels of p38 and JNK were elevated in Zfat-deficient thymocytes at an unstimulated state with an enhanced phosphorylation of ATF2 and with an over-expression of Gadd45α⋅ On the other hand, the activation of JNK in the Zfat-deficient thymocytes, but not p38, was strengthened and prolonged in response to TCR-stimulation. All these results demonstrate that Zfat critically participates in the development of DP thymocytes through regulating the activities of p38 and JNK.
Tumor necrosis factor-(TNF-)-α upregulates plasminogen activator inhibitor-(PAI-) 1 expression in pleural mesothelial cells (PMCs), contributing to fibrin deposition and pleural fibrosis. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) have been found implicated in fibrogenesis. However, the roles of TNF-α or HDAC in the regulation of PAI-1 expression have not been well investigated. We aimed to examine the effects and mechanisms of HDAC inhibition on TNF-α-induced PAI-1 expression in human PMCs. MeT-5A human PMCs were treated with TNF-α in the presence or absence of the m-carboxycinnamic acid bishydroxamide (CBHA), an HDAC class II inhibitor, and the HDAC activity, PAI-1 protein expression, mRNA, and activated signalings were analyzed. CBHA abrogated TNF-α-induced HDAC activity, PAI-1 protein and, mRNA expression in MeT-5A cells. Moreover, CBHA significantly enhanced mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-(MKP-) 5/MKP-1 expression and inhibited p38/JNK activations, ATF2/c-Jun translocation, and PAI-1 promoter activity. Altogether, our data suggest that HDAC inhibition may abrogate TNF-α-activated MAPK/AP-1 signaling and PAI-1 expression in human PMCs. Given the antifibrotic effect through PAI-1 abrogation, CBHA may be utilized as a novel agent in the treatment of fibrotic diseases.
Stress-activated protein kinase-3 (SAPK3), a recently described MAP kinase family member with a wide-spread tissue distribution, was transfected into several mammalian cell lines and shown to be activated in response to cellular stresses, interleukin-1 (IL-1) and tumour necrosis factor (TNF) in a similar manner to SAPK1 (also termed JNK) and SAPK2 (also termed p38, RK, CSBP and Mxi2). SAPK3 and SAPK2 were activated at similar rates in vitro by SAPKK3 (also termed MKK6), and SAPKK3 was the only activator of SAPK3 that was induced when KB or 293 cells were exposed to cellular stresses or stimulated with IL-1 or TNF. Co-transfection with SAPKK3 induced SAPK3 activity and greatly enhanced activation in response to osmotic shock. These experiments indicate that SAPKK3 mediates the activation of SAPK3 in several mammalian cells. SAPK3 and SAPK2 phosphorylated a number of proteins at similar rates, including the transcription factors ATF2, Elk-1 and SAP1, but SAPK3 was far less effective than SAPK2 in activating MAPKAP kinase-2 and MAPKAP kinase-3. Unlike SAPK2, SAPK3 was not inhibited by the drug SB 203580. SAPK3 phosphorylated ATF2 at Thr69, Thr71 and Ser90, the same residues phosphorylated by SAPK1, whereas SAPK2 only phosphorylated Thr69 and Thr71. Our results suggest that cellular functions previously attributed to SAPK1 and/or SAPK2 may be mediated by SAPK3.
Lysosomal Ca(2+) homeostasis is implicated in disease and controls many lysosomal functions. A key in understanding lysosomal Ca(2+) signaling was the discovery of the two-pore channels (TPCs) and their potential activation by NAADP. Recent work concluded that the TPCs function as a PI(3,5)P2 activated channels regulated by mTORC1, but not by NAADP. Here, we identified Mg(2+) and the MAPKs, JNK and P38 as novel regulators of TPC2. Cytoplasmic Mg(2+) specifically inhibited TPC2 outward current, whereas lysosomal Mg(2+) partially inhibited both outward and inward currents in a lysosomal lumen pH-dependent manner. Under controlled Mg(2+), TPC2 is readily activated by NAADP with channel properties identical to those in response to PI(3,5)P2. Moreover, TPC2 is robustly regulated by P38 and JNK. Notably, NAADP-mediated Ca(2+) release in intact cells is regulated by Mg(2+), PI(3,5)P2, and P38/JNK kinases, thus paralleling regulation of TPC2 currents. Our data affirm a key role for TPC2 in NAADP-mediated Ca(2+) signaling and link this pathway to Mg(2+) homeostasis and MAP kinases, pointing to roles for lysosomal Ca(2+) in cell growth, inflammation and cancer.
The extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase, ERK2, fully activated by phosphorylation and without a His(6) tag, shows little tendency to dimerize with or without either calcium or magnesium ions when analyzed by light scattering or analytical ultracentrifugation. Light scattering shows that ~90% of ERK2 is monomeric. Sedimentation equilibrium data (obtained at 4.8-11.2 μM ERK2) with or without magnesium (10 mM) are well described by an ideal one-component model with a fitted molar mass of 40180 ± 240 Da (without Mg(2+) ions) or 41290 ± 330 Da (with Mg(2+) ions). These values, close to the sequence-derived mass of 41711 Da, indicate that no significant dimerization of ERK2 occurs in solution. Analysis of sedimentation velocity data for a 15 μM solution of ERK2 with an enhanced van Holde-Weischet method determined the sedimentation coefficient (s) to be ~3.22 S for activated ERK2 with or without 10 mM MgCl(2). The frictional coefficient ratio (f/f(0)) of 1.28 calculated from the sedimentation velocity and equilibrium data is close to that expected for an ~42 kDa globular protein. The translational diffusion coefficient of ~8.3 × 10(-7) cm(2) s(-1) calculated from the experimentally determined molar mass and sedimentation coefficient agrees with the value determined by dynamic light scattering in the absence and presence of calcium or magnesium ions and a value determined by NMR spectrometry. ERK2 has been proposed to homodimerize and bind only to cytoplasmic but not nuclear proteins [Casar, B., et al. (2008) Mol. Cell 31, 708-721]. Our light scattering data show, however, that ERK2 forms a strong 1:1 complex of ~57 kDa with the cytoplasmic scaffold protein PEA-15. Thus, ERK2 binds PEA-15 as a monomer. Our data provide strong evidence that ERK2 is monomeric under physiological conditions. Analysis of the same ERK2 construct with the nonphysiological His(6) tag shows substantial dimerization under the same ionic conditions.
Compound 1 is a p38 MAP kinase inhibitor potentially useful for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis. A novel six-step synthesis suitable for large-scale preparation was developed in support of a drug development program at Merck Research Laboratories. The key steps include a tandem Heck-lactamization, N-oxidation, and a highly chemoselective Grignard addition of 4-(N-tert-butylpiperidinyl)magnesium chloride to a naphthyridone N-oxide. The N-oxide exerted complete chemoselectivity via chelation in directing the Grignard addition to the alpha position as opposed to 1,4-addition on the ene-lactam. The dihydropyridyl adduct was in situ aromatized with isobutylchloroformate followed by heating in pyridine. Syntheses of Grignard precursor, N-tert-butyl-4-chloro-piperidine, were accomplished via transamination with a quaternary ammonium piperidone or via addition of methylmagnesium chloride to an iminium ion. Utilizing this chemistry, multi-kilogram preparation of compound 1 was successfully demonstrated.
1. Neutrophil adhesion regulates a number of processes involved in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis. Neutrophil destructive potential can be modulated by adhesion, allowing alteration of inflammatory cell behaviour while preserving antimicrobial defences. beta(2)-Integrin-mediated neutrophil adhesion to albumin-coated latex beads (ACLB) allows modulation of integrin clustering and ligation and analysis of the effects of adhesion on neutrophil responses. Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) enhanced neutrophil binding of different diameter ACLB equally, by almost four-fold, and independently of bead size. Adhesion of neutrophils to ACLB caused a size-dependent generation and release of O(2)(-) and also potentiated TNF alpha-induced O(2)(-) release. 2. Binding of ACLB was not affected by disruption of cytoskeletal integrity with nocodazole or cytochalasin D or following blockade of tyrosine kinase activity. In contrast, tyrosine phosphorylation and an intact cytoskeleton were essential for adhesion- and cytokine-induced O(2)(-) release from neutrophils. Inhibition of adhesion- and cytokine-induced O(2)(-) release by 4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl)pyrazol[3,4-d]pyrimidine (PP2) indicated that a Src-family tyrosine kinase was the principal regulatory pathway mediating this response in neutrophils, a distal role for p38 MAPK was revealed by use of SB203580. 3. Tyrosine phosphorylation of c-Fgr, a Src-family tyrosine kinase, occurred following ACLB adhesion and exposure to TNF alpha, and was susceptible to inhibition by PP2. We suggest that activation of the key regulatory enzyme c-Fgr is achieved following ligation of a critical threshold of integrins following binding of large (>3 microM) ACLB.
Extracellular regulated protein kinase 2 (ERK2) is a eukaryotic protein kinase whose activity is regulated by mitogenic stimuli. To gain insight into the catalytic properties of ERK2 and to complement structure-function studies, we undertook a pre-steady state kinetic analysis of the enzyme. To do this, ERK2 was quantitatively activated by MAPKK1 in vitro by monitoring the stoichiometry and site specificity of phosphorylation using a combination of protein mass spectrometry, tryptic peptide analysis, and (32)P radiolabeling. Using a quench-flow apparatus, MgATP(2-) was rapidly mixed (<1 ms) with both ERK2 and the protein substrate EtsDelta138 in the presence of a saturating total concentration (20 mM) of magnesium ion at 27 degrees C and pH 7.5. An exponential burst of product was observed over the first few milliseconds that followed mixing. This burst had an amplitude alpha of 0.44 and was followed by a slower linear phase. The pre-steady state burst is consistent with two partially rate-limiting enzymatic steps, which have the following rate constants: k(2) = 109 +/- 9 s(-1) and k(3) = 56 +/- 4 s(-1). These are attributed to rapid phosphorylation of EtsDelta138 and the process of product release, respectively. Single-turnover experiments provided an independent determination of k(2) (106 +/- 25 s(-1)). The observed catalytic constant (k(cat)(obs)) was found to be sensitive to the concentration of ERK2. The data fit a model in which ERK2 monomers form dimers and suggest that both the monomeric and dimeric forms of ERK2 are active with catalytic constants (k(cat)) of 25 and 37 s(-1), respectively. In addition, the model suggests that in the presence of saturating concentrations of both magnesium and substrates ERK2 subunits dissociate with a dissociation constant (K(d)) of 32 +/- 16 nM.
Extracellular regulated protein kinase 2 (ERK2) is a eukaryotic protein kinase whose activity is regulated by phorbol esters, serum, and growth factors, and displays enhanced activity in several human tumors. Despite its important biological function, its mechanism of catalysis and mode of regulation are poorly understood. Recently, we showed that in the presence of 10 mM magnesium chloride, ERK2 phosphorylates the transcription factor Ets-1 through a random-ordered ternary-complex mechanism [Waas, W. F., and Dalby, K. N. (2002) J. Biol. Chem. 277, 12532]. Now we provide kinetic evidence that ERK2 must bind two divalent magnesium ions to facilitate catalysis at a physiologically relevant rate, because a second magnesium ion promotes both MgATP2- binding and phosphoryl transfer. The velocity dependence on magnesium at saturating concentrations of the protein substrate, Ets138, over a range of ATP4- and Mg2+ ion concentrations, supports the notion that magnesium is an essential activator of ERK2. At high (> or = 1 mM) concentrations of ATP4-, the velocity dependence on total Mg2+ is sigmoidal, but plateaus at high concentrations of free Mg2+, where the enzyme is fully activated. At concentrations of Mg2+ of < or = 4 mM, the velocity dependence on ATP4- displays a peak when the concentration of ATP4- approaches that of total Mg2+ and tends to zero at high concentrations of ATP4-, where the enzyme is predominantly unactivated. The observed velocity dependencies are consistent with the notion that ERK2*Etsdelta138 complexes and ATP4- compete for the same pool of Mg2+ ions in solution. No binding of ATP4- (0-2.5 mM) by ERK2 (65 microM) can be detected using isothermal titration calorimetry at 27 degrees C, pH 8.0, and an ionic strength of 0.15 M (KCl), suggesting that the complex, MgATP2-, is the true substrate for ERK2. In contrast, 5-iodotubericidin binds ERK2 tightly (K(d) = 1 microM) and displays a competitive inhibition pattern toward MgATP2- and a mixed pattern toward free Mg2+, suggesting that the binding of Mg2+ before MgATP2- is not compulsory.
The present study was designed to investigate the mechanism of action of low extracellular magnesium ion concentration ([Mg(2+)](o)) on isolated canine basilar arteries and single cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells from these arteries. Low-[Mg(2+)](o) medium (0-0.6 mM) produces endothelium-independent contractions in isolated canine basilar arteries in a concentration-dependent manner; the lower the concentration of [Mg(2+)](o), the stronger the contractions. The low-[Mg(2+)](o) medium-induced contractions are significantly attenuated by pretreatment of the arteries with low concentrations of either SB-203580, U-0126, PD-98059, genistein, or an Src homology 2 (SH2) domain inhibitor peptide. IC(50) levels obtained for these five antagonists are consistent with reported inhibitor constant (K(i)) values for these tyrosine kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) antagonists. Low-[Mg(2+)](o) medium (0-0.6 mM) produces transient intracellular calcium ion concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) peaks followed by a slow, sustained, and elevated plateau of [Ca(2+)](i) in primary single smooth muscle cells from canine basilar arteries. Low-[Mg(2+)](o) medium induces rapid and stable increases in [Ca(2+)](i); these increases are inhibited markedly in the presence of either SB-203580, U-0126, PD-98059, genistein or a SH2 domain inhibitor peptide. Several specific antagonists of known endogenously formed vasoconstrictors do not inhibit or attenuate either the low-[Mg(2+)](o)-induced contractions or the elevation of [Ca(2+)](i). The present study suggests that activation of several cellular signaling pathways, such as protein tyrosine kinases (including the Src family) and MAPK, appears to play important roles in low-[Mg(2+)](o)-induced contractions and the elevation of [Ca(2+)](i) in smooth muscle cells from canine basilar arteries.
The complete sequence of the cDNA for the coding region of human mitochondrial translational release factor 1 has been obtained from human EST clones and 5'RACE. This sequence has been analyzed to provide insights into the relationship between release factors from bacteria and from mammalian mitochondria. The complete cDNA for the human mitochondrial ribosome recycling factor has been assembled using EST clones. This factor has been expressed in Escherichia coli and purified as a His-tagged protein.
We have recently described two yeast strains that are mutated in the MRF1 gene encoding the mitochondrial release factor mRF-1. Both mutants provoke gene-specific defects in mitochondrial translational termination. In the present study we report the cloning, sequencing, as well as an analysis of residual activities of both mutant mrf1 alleles. Each allele specifies a different single amino acid substitution located one amino acid apart. The amino acid changes do not affect the level or cellular localization of the mutant proteins, since equal amounts of wild type and mutant mRF-1 were detected in the mitochondrial compartment. Over-expression of the mutant alleles in wild type and mrf1 mutant yeast strains produces a phenotype consistent with a reduced affinity of the mutant release factors for the ribosome, indicating that the mutations map in a release factor domain involved in ribosome binding. We also demonstrate that nonsense suppression caused by a mutation in the mitochondrial homolog of the E. coli small ribosomal protein S4 can be reversed by a slight over-expression of the MRF1 gene.
A key feature of mitochondrial translation is the reduced number of transfer RNAs and reassignment of codons. For human mitochondria, a major unresolved problem is how the set of stop codons are decoded by the release factors mtRF1a and mtRF1. Here we present three-dimensional structural models of human mtRF1a and mtRF1 based on their homology to bacterial RF1 in the codon recognition domain, and the strong conservation between mitochondrial and bacterial ribosomal RNA in the decoding region. Sequence changes in the less homologous mtRF1 appear to be correlated with specific features of the mitochondrial rRNA. Extensive computer simulations of the complexes with the ribosomal decoding site show that both mitochondrial factors have similar specificities and that neither reads the putative vertebrate stop codons AGA and AGG. Instead, we present a structural model for a mechanism by which the ICT1 protein causes termination by sensing the presence of these codons in the A-site of stalled ribosomes.
Apoptotic cells have long been considered as intrinsically tolerogenic or unable to elicit immune responses specific for dead cell-associated antigens. However, multiple stimuli can trigger a functionally peculiar type of apoptotic demise that does not go unnoticed by the adaptive arm of the immune system, which we named "immunogenic cell death" (ICD). ICD is preceded or accompanied by the emission of a series of immunostimulatory damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) in a precise spatiotemporal configuration. Several anticancer agents that have been successfully employed in the clinic for decades, including various chemotherapeutics and radiotherapy, can elicit ICD. Moreover, defects in the components that underlie the capacity of the immune system to perceive cell death as immunogenic negatively influence disease outcome among cancer patients treated with ICD inducers. Thus, ICD has profound clinical and therapeutic implications. Unfortunately, the gold-standard approach to detect ICD relies on vaccination experiments involving immunocompetent murine models and syngeneic cancer cells, an approach that is incompatible with large screening campaigns. Here, we outline strategies conceived to detect surrogate markers of ICD in vitro and to screen large chemical libraries for putative ICD inducers, based on a high-content, high-throughput platform that we recently developed. Such a platform allows for the detection of multiple DAMPs, like cell surface-exposed calreticulin, extracellular ATP and high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), and/or the processes that underlie their emission, such as endoplasmic reticulum stress, autophagy and necrotic plasma membrane permeabilization. We surmise that this technology will facilitate the development of next-generation anticancer regimens, which kill malignant cells and simultaneously convert them into a cancer-specific therapeutic vaccine.
Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is a major complication associated with allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Despite the prominent role of the adaptive immune system, the importance of controlling the innate immune system in the pathogenesis of GVHD has recently been rediscovered. High-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) is a crucial damage-associated molecular pattern signal that functions as a potent innate immune mediator in GVHD. In the present study, we investigated treatment of experimental GVHD through HMGB1 blockade using the compound cyclopentylamino carboxymethylthiazolylindole (NecroX)-7. Treated animals significantly attenuated GVHD-related mortality and inhibited severe tissue damage. These protective effects correlated with the decrease in HMGB1 expression and lower levels of reactive oxidative stress. Additionally, NecroX-7 inhibited the HMGB1-induced release of TNF and IL-6, as well as the expression of TLR-4 and receptor for advanced glycation end products. We also observed increased regulatory T cell numbers, which may be associated with regulation of differentiation signals independent of HMGB1. Taken together, these data indicate that NecroX-7 protects mice against lethal GVHD by reciprocal regulation of regulatory T/Th1 cells, attenuating systemic HMGB1 accumulation and inhibiting HMGB1-mediated inflammatory response. Our results indicate the possibility of a new use for a clinical drug that is effective for the treatment of GVHD.
The present study addresses the issue of enhanced apoptotic response to AZT following co-treatment with an NF-kB inhibitor.
To investigate this issue, different cell lines were assayed for susceptibility to AZT-mediated apoptosis without or with the addition of the NF-kB inhibitor Bay-11-7085. For further investigation, U937 cells were selected as good-responder cells to the combination treatment with 32 or 128 μM AZT, and 1 μM Bay-11-7085. Inhibition of NF-kB activation by Bay-11-7085 in cells treated with AZT was assayed through Western blot analysis of p65 expression and by EMSA. Involvement of the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis in mechanisms underlying the improved effect of AZT following Bay-11-7085 co-treatment, was evaluated by assaying the cytochrome c release and the mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) status using the JC-1 dye. Moreover, the transcriptional activity of both anti- and pro-apoptotic genes in U937 cells after combination treatment was quantitatively evaluated through real-time PCR.
We found that the combined treatment induced high levels of cytochrome c release and of MMP collapse in association with evident changes in the expression of both anti- and pro-apoptotic genes of the Bcl-2 family. Overexpression of Bcl-2 significantly suppressed the sensitization of U937 cells to an enhanced apoptotic response to AZT following co-treatment with the NF-kB inhibitor.
The new findings suggest that a combination regimen based on AZT plus an NF-kB inhibitor could represent a new chemotherapeutic tool for retrovirus-related pathologies.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) is known to exacerbate ischemic brain injury; however, the mechanism is unknown. Previous studies have evaluated the effects of TNF-α on neurons with long exposures to high doses of TNF-α, which is not pathophysiologically relevant. We characterized the rapid effects of TNF-α on basal respiration, ATP production, and maximal respiration using pathophysiologically relevant, post-stroke concentrations of TNF-α. We observed a reduction in mitochondrial function as early as 1.5 h after exposure to low doses of TNF-α, followed by a decrease in cell viability in HT-22 cells and primary neurons. Subsequently, we used the HT-22 cell line to determine the mechanism by which TNF-α causes a rapid and profound reduction in mitochondrial function. Pre-treating with TNF-R1 antibody, but not TNF-R2 antibody, ameliorated the neurotoxic effects of TNF-α, indicating that TNF-α exerts its neurotoxic effects through TNF-R1. We observed an increase in caspase 8 activity and a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential after exposure to TNF-α which resulted in a release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria into the cytosol. These novel findings indicate for the first time that an acute exposure to pathophysiologically relevant concentrations of TNF-α has neurotoxic effects mediated by a rapid impairment of mitochondrial function. This study focuses on the neurotoxic mechanism of a pro-inflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α). We demonstrate a prompt mitochondrial dysfunction followed by nerve cell loss after exposure to TNF-α. These studies may provide evidence that the immune system can rapidly and adversely affect brain function and that TNF-α signaling may be a target for neuroprotection.
Current research on Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis requires relevant animal models that mimic the gradual and progressive development of neuronal dysfunction and degeneration that characterizes the disease. Polymorphisms in engrailed 1 (En1), a homeobox transcription factor that is crucial for both the development and survival of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons, are associated with sporadic PD. This suggests that En1 mutant mice might be a promising candidate PD model. Indeed, a mouse that lacks one En1 allele exhibits decreased mitochondrial complex I activity and progressive midbrain dopamine neuron degeneration in adulthood, both features associated with PD. We aimed to further characterize the disease-like phenotype of these En1(+/-) mice with a focus on early neurodegenerative changes that can be utilized to score efficacy of future disease modifying studies. We observed early terminal defects in the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway in En1(+/-) mice. Several weeks before a significant loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra could be detected, we found that striatal terminals expressing high levels of dopaminergic neuron markers TH, VMAT2, and DAT were dystrophic and swollen. Using transmission electron microscopy, we identified electron dense bodies consistent with abnormal autophagic vacuoles in these terminal swellings. In line with these findings, we detected an up-regulation of the mTOR pathway, concurrent with a downregulation of the autophagic marker LC3B, in ventral midbrain and nigral dopaminergic neurons of the En1(+/-) mice. This supports the notion that autophagic protein degradation is reduced in the absence of one En1 allele. We imaged the nigrostriatal pathway using the CLARITY technique and observed many fragmented axons in the medial forebrain bundle of the En1(+/-) mice, consistent with axonal maintenance failure. Using in vivo electrochemistry, we found that nigrostriatal terminals in the dorsal striatum were severely deficient in dopamine release and reuptake. Our findings support a progressive retrograde degeneration of En1(+/-) nigrostriatal neurons, akin to what is suggested to occur in PD. We suggest that using the En1(+/-) mice as a model will provide further key insights into PD pathogenesis, and propose that axon terminal integrity and function can be utilized to estimate dopaminergic neuron health and efficacy of experimental PD therapies.
In T cells mitochondria-derived reactive oxygen species (ROS) are indispensible for activation of the transcription factor NF-κB, expression of cytokines and the CD95 ligand (CD95L/FasL). Here we show that activation-induced ROS generation is dependent on mitochondrial fission. Inhibition of dynamin related protein 1 (Drp1) results in reduced ROS levels and transcriptional activity of NF-κB leading to diminished proliferation and CD95L-dependent activation-induced cell death (AICD). Upon stimulation Drp1 is S-nitrosylated, which is required for oxidative signalling, AICD and cytokine production. In conclusion, we describe a novel signalling pathway that links TCR-induced nitric oxide release to mitochondrial fission and oxidative signalling.
Angiopoietin-1 (Ang1) is a ligand for the receptor tyrosine kinase Tie2 and has key roles in the development of the vascular system and vascular protection. In a screen to define signalling pathways regulated by Ang1 in endothelial cells we found the RNA-binding protein hnRNP-K to be phosphorylated in response to Ang1. The ligand stimulated both tyrosine phosphorylation of hnRNP-K and recruitment of the tyrosine kinase Src to the RNA-binding protein. In endothelial cells hnRNP-K was found bound to mRNA encoding the mitochondrial protein uncoupling protein-2 (UCP2). Ang1 stimulation of cells resulted in the release of UCP2 mRNA from hnRNP-K. Using in vitro assays we confirmed direct binding between hnRNP-K and UCP2 mRNA. Furthermore Src induced phosphorylation of purified hnRNP-K and prevented UCP2 mRNA binding. Tyrosine 458 in the RNA-binding protein was found to be required for suppression of UCP2 mRNA binding by Src phosphorylation. In addition to releasing UCP2 mRNA from hnRNP-K, Ang1 induced an increase in UCP2 protein expression in endothelial cells without affecting total UCP2 mRNA levels. Consistent with the known effects of UCP2 to suppress generation of reactive oxygen species, Ang1 limited ROS production in endothelium stimulated with tumour necrosis factor-α. Taken together these data suggest that UCP2 mRNA is present in endothelial cells bound to hnRNP-K, which holds it in a translationally inactive state, and that Ang1 stimulates Src interaction with hnRNP-K, phosphorylation of the RNA-binding protein, release of these transcripts and upregulation of UCP2 protein expression. This study demonstrates a new mechanism for post-transcriptional regulation of UCP2 by the vascular protective ligand Ang1. The ability to rapidly upregulate UCP2 protein expression may be important in protecting endothelial cells from excessive generation of potentially damaging reactive oxygen species.
Although the results of several studies have underscored the regulatory effect of H1-histamine receptors in cell proliferation of some cancer cell types, its effect in prostate cancers remains unclear. We have therefore studied the effect of terfenadine (an H1-histamine receptor antagonist) in prostate cancer cell lines. Our data demonstrate that terfenadine was effective against PC-3 and DU-145 cells (two prostate cancer cell lines). In contrast, based on the sulforhodamine B assay, loratadine had less potency while fexofenadine and diphenhydramine had little effect. Terfenadine induced the cleavage of Mcl-1 cleavage into a pro-apoptotic 28-kDa fragment and up-regulation of Bak, resulting in the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm) and the release of cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor into the cytosol. The activation of caspase cascades was detected to be linked to terfenadine action. Bak up-regulation was also examined at both the transcriptional and translational levels, and Bak activation was validated based on conformational change to expose the N terminus. Terfenadine also induced an indirect-but not direct-DNA damage response through the cleavage and activation of caspase-2, phosphorylation and activation of Chk1 and Chk2 kinases, phosphorylation of RPA32 and acetylation of Histone H3; these processes were highly correlated to severe mitochondrial dysfunction and the activation of caspase cascades. In conclusion, terfenadine induced apoptotic signaling cascades against HRPCs in a sequential manner. The exposure of cells to terfenadine caused the up-regulation and activation of Bak and the cleavage of Mcl-1, leading to the loss of ΔΨm and activation of caspase cascades which further resulted in DNA damage response and cell apoptosis.
Metabolic reprogramming is an important driver of tumor progression; however, the metabolic regulators of tumor cell motility and metastasis are not understood. Here, we show that tumors maintain energy production under nutrient deprivation through the function of HSP90 chaperones compartmentalized in mitochondria. Using cancer cell lines, we found that mitochondrial HSP90 proteins, including tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated protein-1 (TRAP-1), dampen the activation of the nutrient-sensing AMPK and its substrate UNC-51-like kinase (ULK1), preserve cytoskeletal dynamics, and release the cell motility effector focal adhesion kinase (FAK) from inhibition by the autophagy initiator FIP200. In turn, this results in enhanced tumor cell invasion in low nutrients and metastatic dissemination to bone or liver in disease models in mice. Moreover, we found that phosphorylated ULK1 levels were correlated with shortened overall survival in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. These results demonstrate that mitochondrial HSP90 chaperones, including TRAP-1, overcome metabolic stress and promote tumor cell metastasis by limiting the activation of the nutrient sensor AMPK and preventing autophagy.
Second hand cigarette smoke is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Although a tie between smoking and cardiovascular disease is well established, the underlying mechanisms still remains elusive due to the lack of adequate animal models. This study was designed to use a mouse model of exposure to cigarette smoke, a surrogate of environmental tobacco smoke, to evaluate the impact of cardiac overexpression of heavy metal scavenger metallothionein on myocardial geometry, contractile and intracellular Ca(2+) properties and apoptosis following side-stream smoke exposure.
Adult male wild-type FVB and metallothionein transgenic mice were placed in a chamber exposed to cigarette smoke for 1 hour daily for 40 days. Echocardiographic, cardiomyocyte contractile and intracellular Ca(2+) properties, fibrosis, apoptosis and mitochondrial damage were examined.
Our data revealed that smoke exposure enlarged ventricular end systolic and diastolic diameters, reduced myocardial and cardiomyocyte contractile function, disrupted intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis, facilitated fibrosis, apoptosis and mitochondrial damage (cytochrome C release and aconitase activity), the effects of which were attenuated or mitigated by metallothionein. In addition, side-stream smoke expose enhanced phosphorylation of Akt and GSK3β without affecting pan protein expression in the heart, the effect of which was abolished or ameliorated by metallothionein. Cigarette smoke extract interrupted cardiomyocyte contractile function and intracellular Ca(2+) properties, the effect of which was mitigated by wortmannin and NAC.
These data suggest that side-stream smoke exposure led to myocardial dysfunction, intracellular Ca(2+) mishandling, apoptosis, fibrosis and mitochondrial damage, indicating the therapeutic potential of antioxidant against in second smoking-induced cardiac defects possibly via mitochondrial damage and apoptosis.
3β,16β,17α-Trihydroxycholest-5-en-22-one 16-O-(2-O-4-methoxybenzoyl-β-D-xylopyranosyl)-(1→3)-2-O-acetyl-α-L-arabinopyranoside (OSW-1) is a natural product with potent antitumor activity against various types of cancer cells, but the exact mechanisms of action remain to be defined. In this study, we showed that OSW-1 effectively killed leukemia cells at subnanomolar concentrations through a unique mechanism by causing a time-dependent elevation of cytosolic Ca(2+) prior to induction of apoptosis. A mechanistic study revealed that this compound inhibited the sodium-calcium exchanger 1 on the plasma membrane, leading to an increase in cytosolic Ca(2+) and a decrease in cytosolic Na(+). The elevated cytosolic Ca(2+) caused mitochondrial calcium overload and resulted in a loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, release of cytochrome c, and activation of caspase-3. Furthermore, OSW-1 also caused a Ca(2+)-dependent cleavage of the survival factor GRP78. Inhibition of Ca(2+) entry into the mitochondria by the uniporter inhibitor RU360 or by cyclosporin A significantly prevented the OSW-1-induced cell death, indicating the important role of mitochondria in mediating the cytotoxic activity. The extremely potent activity of OSW-1 against leukemia cells and its unique mechanism of action suggest that this compound may be potentially useful in the treatment of leukemia.
The intrinsic apoptosis pathway is conserved from worms to humans and plays a critical role in the normal development and homeostatic control of adult tissues. As a result, numerous diseases from cancer to neurodegeneration are associated with either too little or too much apoptosis.
B cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) family members regulate cell death, primarily via their effects on mitochondria. In stressed cells, proapoptotic BCL-2 family members promote mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization (MOMP) and cytochrome c (cyt c) release into the cytoplasm, where it stimulates formation of the "apoptosome." This large, multimeric complex is composed of the adapter protein, apoptotic protease-activating factor-1, and the cysteine protease, caspase-9. Recent studies suggest that proteins involved in the processes leading up to (and including) formation of the apoptosome are subject to various forms of post-translational modification, including proteolysis, phosphorylation, and in some cases, direct oxidative modification.
Despite intense investigation of the intrinsic pathway, significant questions remain regarding how cyt c is released from mitochondria, how the apoptosome is formed and regulated, and how caspase-9 is activated within the complex.
Further studies on the biochemistry of MOMP and apoptosome formation are needed to understand the mechanisms that underpin these critical processes, and novel animal models will be necessary in the future to ascertain the importance of the many posttranslational modifications reported for BCL-2 family members and components of the apoptosome.
Cigarette smoking can contribute to the development of many human diseases such as cardiovascular disease, lung cancer, asthma, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Thousands of compounds are present in cigarette smoke, including a large number of reactive oxygen species that can cause DNA damage, leading to the activation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) enzymes. The PAR polymer is degraded by poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG). Here we have investigated the effects of cigarette smoke extract (CSE) on A549 human lung epithelial cells. CSE induced DNA damage (comet assay), PAR accumulation (immunofluorescence and immunoblotting), impaired proliferation (clonogenic survival assay and electric cell-substrate impedance sensing measurement), and cell death (MTT reduction, propidium iodide uptake, lactate dehydrogenase release). CSE-induced cell death was also characterized by mitochondrial depolarization but massive translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor could not be observed. To investigate the role of PARylation in CSE-induced oxidative stress, PARP-1- and PARG-silenced A549 cells were used. Silencing of both PARP-1 and PARG sensitized cells to CSE-induced toxicity: PARP-1- and PARG-silenced cell lines exhibited reduced clonogenic survival, displayed a delayed repair of DNA breaks, and showed higher levels of cytotoxicity. CSE triggered the production of mitochondrial superoxide and hydrogen peroxide. Addition of superoxide dismutase increased, whereas catalase abolished, CSE-induced PAR formation. In summary, our data show that the superoxide-hydrogen peroxide-DNA breakage pathway activates the PAR cycle by PARP-1 and PARG, which serves as a survival mechanism in CSE-exposed cells. Our data also raise the possibility that the PARP-1/PARG status of smokers may be an important determinant of the efficiency of DNA repair in their lungs and of their susceptibility to CS-induced carcinogenesis.
Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDC) are potent APCs known to regulate immune responses to self-Ags, particularly DNA. The mitochondrial fraction of necrotic cells was found to most potently promote human pDC activation, as reflected by type I IFN release, which was dependent upon the presence of mitochondrial DNA and involved TLR9 and receptors for advanced glycation end products. Mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM), a highly abundant mitochondrial protein that is functionally and structurally homologous to high mobility group box protein 1, was observed to synergize with CpG-containing oligonucleotide, type A, DNA to promote human pDC activation. pDC type I IFN responses to TFAM and CpG-containing oligonucleotide, type A, DNA indicated their engagement with receptors for advanced glycation end products and TLR9, respectively, and were dependent upon endosomal processing and PI3K, ERK, and NF-κB signaling. Taken together, these results indicate that pDC contribute to sterile immune responses by recognizing the mitochondrial component of necrotic cells and further incriminate TFAM and mitochondrial DNA as likely mediators of pDC activation under these circumstances.
The outer mitochondrial membrane GTPase mitofusin 2 (Mfn2) is known to regulate endoplasmic reticulum (ER) shape in addition to its mitochondrial fusion effects. However, its role in ER stress is unknown. We report here that induction of ER stress with either thapsigargin or tunicamycin in mouse embryonic fibroblasts leads to up-regulation of Mfn2 mRNA and protein levels with no change in the expression of the mitochondrial shaping factors Mfn1, Opa1, Drp1, and Fis1. Genetic deletion of Mfn2 but not Mfn1 in mouse embryonic fibroblasts or cardiac myocytes in mice led to an increase in the expression of the ER chaperone proteins. Genetic ablation of Mfn2 in mouse embryonic fibroblasts amplified ER stress and exacerbated ER stress-induced apoptosis. Deletion of Mfn2 delayed translational recovery through prolonged eIF2α phosphorylation associated with decreased GADD34 and p58(IPK) expression and elevated C/EBP homologous protein induction at late time points. These changes in the unfolded protein response were coupled to increased cell death reflected by augmented caspase 3/7 activity, lactate dehydrogenase release from cells, and an increase in propidium iodide-positive nuclei in response to thapsigargin or tunicamycin treatment. In contrast, genetic deletion of Mfn1 did not affect ER stress-mediated increase in ER chaperone synthesis or eIF2α phosphorylation. Additionally, ER stress-induced C/EBP homologous protein, GADD34, and p58(IPK) induction and cell death were not affected by loss of Mfn1. We conclude that Mfn2 but not Mfn1 is an ER stress-inducible protein that is required for the proper temporal sequence of the ER stress response.
We previously identified novel thiazole derivatives able to reduce histone acetylation and histone acetyltransferase (HAT) activity in yeast. Among these compounds, 3-methylcyclopentylidene-[4-(4'-chlorophenyl)thiazol-2-yl]hydrazone (CPTH6) has been selected and used throughout this study.
The effect of CPTH6 on histone acetylation, cell viability and differentiation, cell-cycle distribution, and apoptosis in a panel of acute myeloid leukemia and solid tumor cell lines has been evaluated.
Here, we showed that CPTH6 leads to an inhibition of Gcn5 and pCAF HAT activity. Moreover, it inhibits H3/H4 histones and α-tubulin acetylation of a panel of leukemia cell lines. Concentration- and time-dependent inhibition of cell viability, paralleled by accumulation of cells in the G(0)/G(1) phase and depletion from the S/G(2)M phases, was observed. The role of mitochondrial pathway on CPTH6-induced apoptosis was shown, being a decrease of mitochondrial membrane potential and the release of cytochrome c, from mitochondria to cytosol, induced by CPTH6. Also the involvement of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL on CPTH6-induced apoptosis was found after overexpression of the two proteins in leukemia cells. Solid tumor cell lines from several origins were shown to be differently sensitive to CPTH6 treatment in terms of cell viability, and a correlation between the inhibitory efficacy on H3/H4 histones acetylation and cytotoxicity was found. Differentiating effect on leukemia and neuroblastoma cell lines was also induced by CPTH6.
These results make CPTH6 a suitable tool for discovery of molecular targets of HAT and, potentially, for the development of new anticancer therapies, which warrants further investigations.
In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (COX) biogenesis is translationally regulated. Mss51, a specific COX1 mRNA translational activator and Cox1 chaperone, drives the regulatory mechanism. During translation and post-translationally, newly synthesized Cox1 physically interacts with a complex of proteins involving Ssc1, Mss51, and Cox14, which eventually hand over Cox1 to the assembly pathway. This step is probably catalyzed by assembly chaperones such as Shy1 in a process coupled to the release of Ssc1-Mss51 from the complex. Impaired COX assembly results in the trapping of Mss51 in the complex, thus limiting its availability for COX1 mRNA translation. An exception is a null mutation in COX14 that does not affect Cox1 synthesis because the Mss51 trapping complexes become unstable, and Mss51 is readily available for translation. Here we present evidence showing that Cox25 is a new essential COX assembly factor that plays some roles similar to Cox14. A null mutation in COX25 by itself or in combination with other COX mutations does not affect Cox1 synthesis. Cox25 is an inner mitochondrial membrane intrinsic protein with a hydrophilic C terminus protruding into the matrix. Cox25 is an essential component of the complexes containing newly synthesized Cox1, Ssc1, Mss51, and Cox14. In addition, Cox25 is also found to interact with Shy1 and Cox5 in a complex that does not contain Mss51. These results suggest that once Ssc1-Mss51 are released from the Cox1 stabilization complex, Cox25 continues to interact with Cox14 and Cox1 to facilitate the formation of multisubunit COX assembly intermediates.
Human immunodeficiency virus-associated neurological disease (HAND) still causes significant morbidity, despite success reducing viral loads with combination antiretroviral therapy. The dopamine (DA) system is particularly vulnerable in HAND. We hypothesize that early, "reversible" DAergic synaptic dysfunction occurs long before DAergic neuron loss. As such, aging human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected individuals may be vulnerable to other age-related neurodegenerative diseases like Parkinson's disease (PD), underscoring the need to understand shared molecular targets in HAND and PD. Previously, we reported that the neurotoxic HIV-1 transactivating factor (Tat) acutely disrupts mitochondrial and endoplasmic reticulum calcium homeostasis via ryanodine receptor (RyR) activation. Here, we further report that Tat disrupts DA transporter (DAT) activity and function, resulting in increased plasma membrane (PM) DAT and increased DAT V(max), without changes in K(m) or total DAT protein. Tat also increases calpain protease activity at the PM, demonstrated by total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy of a cleavable fluorescent calpain substrate. Tat-increased PM DAT and calpain activity are blocked by the RyR antagonists ryanodine and dantrolene, the calpain inhibitor calpastatin, and by a specific inhibitor of GSK-3β. We conclude that Tat activates RyRs via a calcium- and calpain-mediated mechanism that upregulates DAT trafficking to the PM, and is independent of DAT protein synthesis, reinforcing the feasibility of RyR and GSK-3β inhibition as clinical therapeutic approaches for HAND. Finally, we provide key translational relevance for these findings by highlighting published human data of increased DAT levels in striata of HAND patients and by demonstrating similar findings in Tat-expressing transgenic mice.
Until recently, human mitochondria were regarded as unusual as they appeared to employ four stop codons to terminate translation. In addition to the UAA/UAG of the universal genetic code, two arginine triplets (AGA/AGG) had been re-assigned as termination signals. This posed the conundrum of what factor was responsible for recognizing these triplets to promote translation termination? Recent data indicates that in fact no protein is required to recognize AGA/AGG. Indeed, it is the absence of any cognate factor, tRNA or polypeptide that is important. On encountering either of these 'hungry' codons at the end of an open reading frame, instead of requiring a novel or modified release factor, human mitoribosomes employ -1 frameshifting to reposition a standard UAG codon in the A-site, indicating that only the universal UAA and UAG are used as stop codons. This renders a single mitochondrial release factor, mtRF1a, previously shown to be capable of terminating 11 of the 13 open reading frames encoded by the mitochondrial genome, to be sufficient to release all nascent human mitochondrial gene products from the mitoribosome.
Mechanisms that preserve endothelial cell (EC) integrity remain elusive, but are critical for new strategies directed against endocrine disorders such as diabetes mellitus (DM). Here we demonstrate in primary cerebral ECs with a clinically relevant model of elevated d-glucose that Akt1 and the post-translational modification and subcellular trafficking of the forkhead transcription factor FoxO3a are critical for early apoptotic membrane signaling and subsequent degradation of nuclear DNA. FoxO3a also directly governs apoptotic mitochondrial signal transduction pathways, since gene knockdown of FoxO3a prevents mitochondrial membrane depolarization as well as the release of cytochrome c. Control of this apoptotic cascade extends to the rapid and progressive activation of caspases. The presence of FoxO3a is necessary for cleaved (active) caspase 1 and 3 expression, since loss of FoxO3a abrogates the induction of caspase activity. Our work identifies Akt1, FoxO3a and closely aligned pathways as key therapeutic targets during impaired glucose tolerance and DM.
Translation termination is accomplished by proteins of the Class I release factor family (RF) that recognize stop codons and catalyze the ribosomal release of the newly synthesized peptide. Bacteria have two canonical RFs: RF1 recognizes UAA and UAG, RF2 recognizes UAA and UGA. Despite that these two release factor proteins are sufficient for de facto translation termination, the eukaryotic organellar RF protein family, which has evolved from bacterial release factors, has expanded considerably, comprising multiple subfamilies, most of which have not been functionally characterized or formally classified. Here, we integrate multiple sources of information to analyze the remarkable differentiation of the RF family among organelles. We document the origin, phylogenetic distribution and sequence structure features of the mitochondrial and plastidial release factors: mtRF1a, mtRF1, mtRF2a, mtRF2b, mtRF2c, ICT1, C12orf65, pRF1, and pRF2, and review published relevant experimental data. The canonical release factors (mtRF1a, mtRF2a, pRF1, and pRF2) and ICT1 are derived from bacterial ancestors, whereas the others have resulted from gene duplications of another release factor. These new RF family members have all lost one or more specific motifs relevant for bona fide release factor function but are mostly targeted to the same organelle as their ancestor. We also characterize the subset of canonical release factor proteins that bear nonclassical PxT/SPF tripeptide motifs and provide a molecular-model-based rationale for their retained ability to recognize stop codons. Finally, we analyze the coevolution of canonical RFs with the organellar genetic code. Although the RF presence in an organelle and its stop codon usage tend to coevolve, we find three taxa that encode an RF2 without using UGA stop codons, and one reverse scenario, where mamiellales green algae use UGA stop codons in their mitochondria without having a mitochondrial type RF2. For the latter, we put forward a "stop-codon reinvention" hypothesis that involves the retargeting of the plastid release factor to the mitochondrion.
mtRF1 is a vertebrate mitochondrial protein with an unknown function that arose from a duplication of the mitochondrial release factor mtRF1a. To elucidate the function of mtRF1, we determined the positions that are conserved among mtRF1 sequences but that are different in their mtRF1a paralogs. We subsequently modeled the 3D structure of mtRF1a and mtRF1 bound to the ribosome, highlighting the structural implications of these differences to derive a hypothesis for the function of mtRF1.
Our model predicts, in agreement with the experimental data, that the 3D structure of mtRF1a allows it to recognize the stop codons UAA and UAG in the A-site of the ribosome. In contrast, we show that mtRF1 likely can only bind the ribosome when the A-site is devoid of mRNA. Furthermore, while mtRF1a will adopt its catalytic conformation, in which it functions as a peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase in the ribosome, only upon binding of a stop codon in the A-site, mtRF1 appears specifically adapted to assume this extended, peptidyl-tRNA hydrolyzing conformation in the absence of mRNA in the A-site.
We predict that mtRF1 specifically recognizes ribosomes with an empty A-site and is able to function as a peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase in those situations. Stalled ribosomes with empty A-sites that still contain a tRNA bound to a peptide chain can result from the translation of truncated, stop-codon less mRNAs. We hypothesize that mtRF1 recycles such stalled ribosomes, performing a function that is analogous to that of tmRNA in bacteria.
We investigated the genetic basis for a global and uniform decrease in mitochondrial translation in fibroblasts from patients in two unrelated pedigrees who developed Leigh syndrome, optic atrophy, and ophthalmoplegia. Analysis of the assembly of the oxidative phosphorylation complexes showed severe decreases of complexes I, IV, and V and a smaller decrease in complex III. The steady-state levels of mitochondrial mRNAs, tRNAs, and rRNAs were not reduced, nor were those of the mitochondrial translation elongation factors or the protein components of the mitochondrial ribosome. Using homozygosity mapping, we identified a 1 bp deletion in C12orf65 in one patient, and DNA sequence analysis showed a different 1 bp deletion in the second patient. Both mutations predict the same premature stop codon. C12orf65 belongs to a family of four mitochondrial class I peptide release factors, which also includes mtRF1a, mtRF1, and Ict1, all characterized by the presence of a GGQ motif at the active site. However, C12orf65 does not exhibit peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase activity in an in vitro assay with bacterial ribosomes. We suggest that it might play a role in recycling abortive peptidyl-tRNA species, released from the ribosome during the elongation phase of translation.
Vertebrate mitochondria use stop codons UAA and UAG decoded by the release factor (RF) MTRF1L and two reassigned arginine codons, AGA and AGG. A second highly conserved RF-like factor, MTRF1, which evolved from a gene duplication of an ancestral mitochondrial RF1 and not a RF2, is a good candidate for recognizing the nonstandard codons. MTRF1 differs from other RFs by having insertions in the two external loops important for stop codon recognition (tip of helix alpha5 and recognition loop) and by having key substitutions that are involved in stop codon interactions in eubacterial RF/ribosome structures. These changes may allow recognition of the larger purine base in the first position of AGA/G and, uniquely for RFs, only of G at position 2. In contrast, residues that support A and G recognition in the third position in RF1 are conserved as would be required for recognition of AGA and AGG. Since an assay with vertebrate mitochondrial ribosomes has not been established, we modified Escherichia coli RF1 at the helix alpha5 and recognition loop regions to mimic MTRF1. There was loss of peptidyl-tRNA hydrolysis activity with standard stop codons beginning with U (e.g., UAG), but a gain of activity with codons beginning with A (AAG in particular). A lower level of activity with AGA could be enhanced by solvent modification. These observations imply that MTRF1 has the characteristics to recognize A as the first base of a stop codon as would be required to decode the nonstandard codons AGA and AGG.
The telomeres are nucleoprotein complexes essential for maintaining the genomic integrity of linear chromosomes. Six telomere localizing proteins form a complex named "shelterin/telosome" to cooperatively regulate telomere length and protect chromosomal ends from DNA damage and repair responses. Mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells lacking TRF1, a shelterin component, exhibit a high-incidence of broken or lost telomere FISH signals, supporting a critical role for TRF1 in telomere maintenance. We demonstrate that these abnormal telomere structures are not caused by the inability of TRF1-deficient cells to recruit TIN2 but are due to a specific role for TRF1 at telomeres. Furthermore, we provide evidence that the mTRF1 TRF homology (TRFH) domain is crucial for this abnormal telomere FISH phenotype. These novel findings suggest that the TRFH domain is crucial not only for dimerization of TRF1 and TIN2-telomere recruitment, but also telomere stabilization.
The telomere is a functional chromatin structure that consists of G-rich repetitive sequences and various associated proteins. Telomeres protect chromosomal ends from degradation, provide escape from the DNA damage response, and regulate telomere lengthening by telomerase. Multiple proteins that localize at telomeres form a complex called shelterin/telosome. One component, TRF1, is a double-stranded telomeric DNA binding protein. Inactivation of TRF1 disrupts telomeric localization of other shelterin components and induces chromosomal instability. Here, we examined how the telomeric localization of shelterin components is crucial for TRF1-mediated telomere-associated functions. We found that many of the mTRF1 deficient phenotypes, including chromosomal instability, growth defects, and dysfunctional telomere damage response, were suppressed by the telomere localization of shelterin components in the absence of functional mTRF1. However, abnormal telomere signals and telomere elongation phenotypes were either not rescued or only partially rescued, respectively. These data suggest that TRF1 regulates telomere length and function by at least two mechanisms; in one TRF1 acts through the recruiting/tethering of other shelterin components to telomeres, and in the other TRF1 seems to play a more direct role.
Chinese hamster cells frequently have altered karyotypes. To investigate the basis of recent observations that karyotypic alterations are related to telomeric fusions, we asked whether these alterations are due to lack of telomere repeat binding factor/s. Further, Chinese hamster chromosomes contain large blocks of interstitial telomeric repeats, which are preferentially involved in chromosome breakage and exchange, rendering it an interesting model for such studies. Here, we report on the cloning and the chromosomal localization of the Chinese hamster telomere repeat binding factor, chTRF1. The sequence analysis revealed, similar to human TRF1 (hTRF1), an N-terminal acidic domain, a TRF1 specific DNA binding motif and a C-terminal Myb type domain. Unlike mouse TRF1 (mTRF1), chTRF1 shows 97.5% identity to hTRF1. chTRF1 gene was localized on the long arm of chromosome 5. In vitro translation of chTRF1 resulted in protein product similar in molecular weight to hTRF1. Immunostaining of Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO) with anti-TRF1 antibody revealed punctate nuclear staining. At metaphase, antibodies failed to detect TRF1 on most of the chromosome ends and the interstitial telomeric repeat bands. These studies suggest that chTRF1 does not bind the interstitial telomeric repeats, and its presence at the metaphase chromosome ends is limited. The later could be a factor contributing to frequent karyotypic alterations observed in Chinese hamster cells.
Mammalian chromosome ends contain long arrays of TTAGGG repeats that are complexed to a telomere specific protein, the TTAGGG repeat binding factor, TRF1. Here we describe the characterization of genes encoding the human and mouse TRF1 proteins, hTRF1 and mTRF1. The mTRF1 cDNA was isolated based on sequence similarity to the hTRF1 cDNA and the mTRF1 mRNA was shown to be ubiquitously expressed as a single 1.9 kb polyadenylated transcript in mouse somatic tissues. High levels of a 2.1 kb transcript were found in testes. In vitro translation of the mTRF1 cDNA resulted in a 56 kDa protein that binds to TTAGGG repeat arrays. mTRF1 displayed the same sequence specificity as hTRF1, preferring arrays of TTAGGG repeats as a binding substrate over TTAGGC and TTGGGG repeats. Expression of an epitope-tagged version of mTRF1 showed that the protein is located at the ends of murine metaphase chromosomes. In agreement, conceptual translation indicated that mTRF1 and hTRF1 are similarly-sized proteins with nearly identical C-terminal Myb-related DNA binding motifs. In addition, comparison of the predicted mTRF1 and hTRF1 amino acid sequences showed that the acidic nature of the N-terminus of TRF1 is conserved and revealed a highly conserved novel domain of approximately 200 amino acids in the middle of the proteins. However, other regions of the proteins are poorly conserved (<35% identity) and the overall level of identity of the mTRF1 and hTRF1 amino acid sequences is only 67%. The TRF1 genes are not syntenic; the hTRF1 gene localized to human chromosome 8 band q13 while the mTRF1 gene localized to mouse chromosome 17 band E3. The data indicate that the genes for mammalian telomeric proteins evolve rapidly.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase 4 (MAP4K4) regulates the MEK kinase cascade and is implicated in cytoskeletal rearrangement and migration; however, identifying MAP4K4 substrates has remained a challenge. To ascertain MAP4K4-dependent phosphorylation events, we combined phosphoproteomic studies of MAP4K4 inhibition with in vitro assessment of its kinase specificity. We identified 235 phosphosites affected by MAP4K4 inhibition in cells and found that pTP and pSP motifs were predominant among them. In contrast, in vitro assessment of kinase specificity showed that MAP4K4 favors a pTL motif. We showed that MAP4K4 directly phosphorylates and coimmunoprecipitates with FERM, RhoGEF, and pleckstrin domain-containing protein 1 (FARP1). MAP4K4 inhibition in SH-SY5Y cells increases neurite outgrowth, a process known to involve FARP1. As FARP1 and MAP4K4 both contribute to cytoskeletal rearrangement, the results suggest that MAP4K4 exerts some of its effects on the cytoskeleton via phosphorylation of FARP1.
Diverse biological roles for mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4 (MAP4K4) have necessitated the identification of potent inhibitors in order to study its function in various disease contexts. In particular, compounds that can be used to carry out such studies in vivo would be critical for elucidating the potential for therapeutic intervention. A structure-based design effort coupled with property-guided optimization directed at minimizing the ability of the inhibitors to cross into the CNS led to an advanced compound 13 (GNE-495) that showed excellent potency and good PK and was used to demonstrate in vivo efficacy in a retinal angiogenesis model recapitulating effects that were observed in the inducible Map4k4 knockout mice.
Studies in vitro suggest that mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4 (Map4k4) attenuates insulin signaling, but confirmation in vivo is lacking since Map4k4 knockout is lethal during embryogenesis. We thus generated mice with floxed Map4k4 alleles and a tamoxifen-inducible Cre/ERT2 recombinase under the control of the ubiquitin C promoter to induce whole-body Map4k4 deletion after these animals reached maturity. Tamoxifen administration to these mice induced Map4k4 deletion in all tissues examined, causing decreased fasting blood glucose concentrations and enhanced insulin signaling to AKT in adipose tissue and liver but not in skeletal muscle. Surprisingly, however, mice generated with a conditional Map4k4 deletion in adiponectin-positive adipocytes or in albumin-positive hepatocytes displayed no detectable metabolic phenotypes. Instead, mice with Map4k4 deleted in Myf5-positive tissues, including all skeletal muscles tested, were protected from obesity-induced glucose intolerance and insulin resistance. Remarkably, these mice also showed increased insulin sensitivity in adipose tissue but not skeletal muscle, similar to the metabolic phenotypes observed in inducible whole-body knockout mice. Taken together, these results indicate that (i) Map4k4 controls a pathway in Myf5-positive cells that suppresses whole-body insulin sensitivity and (ii) Map4k4 is a potential therapeutic target for improving glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity in type 2 diabetes.
Insecticidal crystal toxins derived from the soil bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) are widely used as biopesticide sprays or expressed in transgenic crops to control insect pests. However, large-scale use of Bt has led to field-evolved resistance in several lepidopteran pests. Resistance to Bt Cry1Ac toxin in the diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella (L.), was previously mapped to a multigenic resistance locus (BtR-1). Here, we assembled the 3.15 Mb BtR-1 locus and found high-level resistance to Cry1Ac and Bt biopesticide in four independent P. xylostella strains were all associated with differential expression of a midgut membrane-bound alkaline phosphatase (ALP) outside this locus and a suite of ATP-binding cassette transporter subfamily C (ABCC) genes inside this locus. The interplay between these resistance genes is controlled by a previously uncharacterized trans-regulatory mechanism via the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway. Molecular, biochemical, and functional analyses have established ALP as a functional Cry1Ac receptor. Phenotypic association experiments revealed that the recessive Cry1Ac resistance was tightly linked to down-regulation of ALP, ABCC2 and ABCC3, whereas it was not linked to up-regulation of ABCC1. Silencing of ABCC2 and ABCC3 in susceptible larvae reduced their susceptibility to Cry1Ac but did not affect the expression of ALP, whereas suppression of MAP4K4, a constitutively transcriptionally-activated MAPK upstream gene within the BtR-1 locus, led to a transient recovery of gene expression thereby restoring the susceptibility in resistant larvae. These results highlight a crucial role for ALP and ABCC genes in field-evolved resistance to Cry1Ac and reveal a novel trans-regulatory signaling mechanism responsible for modulating the expression of these pivotal genes in P. xylostella.
Disassembly of focal adhesions (FAs) allows cell retraction and integrin detachment from the extracellular matrix, processes critical for cell movement. Growth of microtubules (MTs) can promote FA turnover by serving as tracks to deliver proteins essential for FA disassembly. The molecular nature of this FA "disassembly factor," however, remains elusive. By quantitative proteomics, we identified mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4 (MAP4K4) as an FA regulator that associates with MTs. Knockout of MAP4K4 stabilizes FAs and impairs cell migration. By exploring underlying mechanisms, we further show that MAP4K4 associates with ending binding 2 (EB2) and IQ motif and SEC7 domain-containing protein 1 (IQSEC1), a guanine nucleotide exchange factor specific for Arf6, whose activation promotes integrin internalization. Together, our findings provide critical insight into FA disassembly, suggesting that MTs can deliver MAP4K4 toward FAs through EB2, where MAP4K4 can, in turn, activate Arf6 via IQSEC1 and enhance FA dissolution.
To investigate the genome copy number variation (CNV) related with keloid using the whole-gene resequencing technology.
A keloid pedigree containing 4 generation of 27 people was studied. Five people (4 cases of keloid patients, and 1 case of normal) were selected to extract the genomic DNA. Then the whole-gene resequencing technique was used to check the variations based on the Illumina Hiseq 2000.
Through database comparison and variation annotation analysis, 15 CNVs associated with scar hyperplasia were obtained. DAVID software was used to do the Gene Ontology and pathway analysis. Five CNVs were closely related to the keloid formation. They were growth factor receptor-bound 7 (Grb7), mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4 (MAP4K4), mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 15 (MAP3K15), kruppel-like factors 7 (KLF7) and NK2 homeobox 2 (NKX2-2). These CNVs were involved in the process of epidermal cells formation and differentiation, cell exocrine and cell adhesion.
There are 5 CNVs associated with scar hyperplasia. Especially MAP3K15 and MAP4K4 deserve more research to find their function in keloid formation.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4 (MAP4K4) is a serine/threonine kinase implicated in the regulation of many biological processes. A fragment-based lead discovery approach was used to generate potent and selective MAP4K4 inhibitors. The fragment hit pursued in this article had excellent ligand efficiency (LE), an important attribute for subsequent successful optimization into drug-like lead compounds. The optimization efforts eventually led us to focus on the pyridopyrimidine series, from which 6-(2-fluoropyridin-4-yl)pyrido[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-amine (29) was identified. This compound had low nanomolar potency, excellent kinase selectivity, and good in vivo exposure, and demonstrated in vivo pharmacodynamic effects in a human tumor xenograft model.
Epigenetic modification, particularly changes in DNA methylation at gene promoters, is implicated in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. However, the analysis of DNA methylation in atherosclerosis has been limited to a few selected candidate genes. In this study, we therefore performed a genome-wide analysis of DNA methylation in the atherosclerotic human aorta. A total of 48 post-mortem human aortic intima specimens were examined. To avoid the effects of interindividual variation, we performed intraindividual paired comparisons between atheromatous plaque lesions and corresponding plaque-free tissue for 24 subjects. Bisulfite-modified genomic DNA was analyzed for DNA methylation with a specific microarray (Illumina HumanMethylation450 BeadChip). We compensated for multiple comparisons by applying Bonferroni's correction for statistical significance of association. DNA methylation was significantly (P<1.03x10⁻⁷) reduced at 15 CpG sites in 14 genes and increased at 30 CpG sites in 22 genes in atheromatous plaque compared with plaque-free intima. Three of the hypomethylated genes [Drosophila headcase (HECA), early B-cell factor 1 (EBF1) and nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain containing 2 (NOD2)] and three of the hypermethylated genes [human mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4 (MAP4K4), zinc finger E-box binding homeobox 1 (ZEB1) and FYN] were previously been implicated in atherosclerosis. The overexpression of HECA, EBF1 or NOD2 or the suppression of MAP4K4, ZEB1 or FYN expression in cultured HEK293 cells resulted in significant (P<4.80x10⁻⁷) changes in the expression of atherosclerosis-related genes, as determined with an expression microarray (Illumina HumanHT-12 v4 Expression BeadChip). Our findings suggested that HECA, EBF1 and NOD2 were significantly hypomethylated, whereas MAP4K4, ZEB1 and FYN were hypermethylated, in atheromatous plaque lesions compared with plaque-free intima. Epigenetic mechanisms may thus contribute to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.
The aim of this study was to analyze the roles of miR-143 and miR-145, as well as the gene and protein expression of their targets (KRAS, ERK5, MAP3K3, and MAP4K4) in the pathogenesis of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
We analyzed the specimens of 44 patients diagnosed with BPH who underwent surgical treatment. The control group consisted of prostate samples from 2 young patients who were organ donors. miRNAs and their target genes were assessed using real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), and protein levels were assessed by Western blotting.
miR-143 and miR-145 were overexpressed in, respectively, 62.5% and 73.8% of the cases. The ERK5 and MAP4K4 genes were underexpressed respectively in 59.4% and 100% of the BPH samples, whereas KRAS and MAP3K3 were overexpressed respectively in 79.4% and 61.5% of the samples. Increased protein expression was found for both KRAS (4,312.2 luminance/area) and MAP3K3 (7,461.7 luminance/area), while the ERK5 protein was more abundant in the samples from patients with prostate larger than 60 grams (p=0.019).
The overexpression of miR-143 and miR-145 in BPH samples suggests an association with the pathogenesis of the disease; additionally, the latter miRNA may act through the inhibition of MAP4K4. KRAS and MAP3K3 overexpression may also be associated with BPH pathogenesis. Further analyses are necessary to confirm these results.
The mammalian striatin family consists of three proteins, striatin, S/G2 nuclear autoantigen, and zinedin. Striatin family members have no intrinsic catalytic activity, but rather function as scaffolding proteins. Remarkably, they organize multiple diverse, large signaling complexes that participate in a variety of cellular processes. Moreover, they appear to be regulatory/targeting subunits for the major eukaryotic serine/threonine protein phosphatase 2A. In addition, striatin family members associate with germinal center kinase III kinases as well as other novel components, earning these assemblies the name striatin-interacting phosphatase and kinase (STRIPAK) complexes. Recently, there has been a great increase in functional and mechanistic studies aimed at identifying and understanding the roles of STRIPAK and STRIPAK-like complexes in cellular processes of multiple organisms. These studies have identified novel STRIPAK and STRIPAK-like complexes and have explored their roles in specific signaling pathways. Together, the results of these studies have sparked increased interest in striatin family complexes because they have revealed roles in signaling, cell cycle control, apoptosis, vesicular trafficking, Golgi assembly, cell polarity, cell migration, neural and vascular development, and cardiac function. Moreover, STRIPAK complexes have been connected to clinical conditions, including cardiac disease, diabetes, autism, and cerebral cavernous malformation. In this review, we discuss the expression, localization, and protein domain structure of striatin family members. Then we consider the diverse complexes these proteins and their homologs form in various organisms, emphasizing what is known regarding function and regulation. Finally, we explore possible roles of striatin family complexes in disease, especially cerebral cavernous malformation.
Adipose tissue lipogenesis is paradoxically impaired in human obesity, promoting ectopic triglyceride (TG) deposition, lipotoxicity, and insulin resistance. We previously identified mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4 (Map4k4), a sterile 20 protein kinase reported to be upstream of c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling, as a novel negative regulator of insulin-stimulated glucose transport in adipocytes. Using full-genome microarray analysis we uncovered a novel role for Map4k4 as a suppressor of lipid synthesis. We further report here the surprising finding that Map4k4 suppresses adipocyte lipogenesis independently of JNK. Thus, while Map4k4 silencing in adipocytes enhances the expression of lipogenic enzymes, concomitant with increased conversion of (14)C-glucose and (14)C-acetate into TGs and fatty acids, JNK1 and JNK2 depletion causes the opposite effects. Furthermore, high expression of Map4k4 fails to activate endogenous JNK, while Map4k4 depletion does not attenuate JNK activation by tumor necrosis factor α. Map4k4 silencing in cultured adipocytes elevates both the total protein expression and cleavage of sterol-regulated element binding protein-1 (Srebp-1) in a rapamycin-sensitive manner, consistent with Map4k4 signaling via mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1). We show Map4k4 depletion requires Srebp-1 upregulation to increase lipogenesis and further show that Map4k4 promotes AMP-protein kinase (AMPK) signaling and the phosphorylation of mTORC1 binding partner raptor (Ser792) to inhibit mTORC1. Our results indicate that Map4k4 inhibits adipose lipogenesis by suppression of Srebp-1 in an AMPK- and mTOR-dependent but JNK-independent mechanism.
Galactosylated trimethyl chitosan-cysteine (GTC) nanoparticles (NPs) were developed for oral delivery of a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4 (Map4k4) siRNA (siMap4k4) to the activated macrophages for treatment of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced ulcerative colitis (UC). siRNA loaded GTC NPs were prepared based on ionic gelation of GTC with anionic crosslinkers (tripolyphosphate (TPP) or hyaluronic acid (HA)). The types of crosslinkers involved in GTC NPs significantly affected their physicochemical characteristics. GTC/TPP NPs with smaller particle size and lower zeta potential possessed superior structural stability in gastrointestinal environment compared to GTC/HA NPs. Cellular uptake of GTC/TPP NPs in activated macrophages was significantly enhanced compared to trimethyl chitosan-cysteine (TC)/TPP NPs owing to galactose receptor-mediated endocytosis. The in vitro and in vivo gene knockdown measurement showed that siMap4k4 loaded GTC/TPP NPs effectively inhibited TNF-α production, which remarkably outperformed siMap4k4 loaded TC/TPP NPs. Compared to TC/TPP NPs, GTC/TPP NPs more efficiently promoted the distribution of siRNA in ulcerative colon following oral administration. Daily oral administration of GTC/TPP NPs containing siMap4k4 significantly improved DSS-induced body weight loss, colon length shortening, and increase of myeloperoxidase activity. This study would provide an effective approach for oral siRNA delivery in the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases.
Myoblast differentiation into mature myotubes is a critical step in the development and repair of human skeletal muscle. Here we show that small interfering RNA (siRNA)-based silencing of the Ste20-like mitogen-activated protein 4 kinase 4 (Map4k4) in C2C12 myoblasts markedly enhances expression of myogenic differentiation genes, myoblast fusion, and myotube diameter. In contrast, adenovirus-mediated expression of native Map4k4 in C2C12 cells attenuates each of these processes, indicating that Map4k4 is a negative regulator of myogenic differentiation and hypertrophy. Expression of a Map4k4 kinase-inactive mutant enhances myotube formation, suggesting that the kinase activity of Map4k4 is essential for its inhibition of muscle differentiation. Map4k4 regulation of myogenesis is unlikely to be mediated by classic mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways, because no significant difference in phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), p38, or c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) is observed in Map4k4-silenced cells. Furthermore, silencing of these other MAPKs does not result in a hypertrophic myotube phenotype like that seen with Map4k4 depletion. Uniquely, Map4k4 silencing upregulates the expression of the myogenic regulatory factor Myf5, whose depletion inhibits myogenesis. Furthermore, Myf5 is required for enhancement of myotube formation in Map4k4-silenced cells, while Myf5 overexpression rescues Map4k4-mediated inhibition of myogenic differentiation. These results demonstrate that Map4k4 is a novel suppressor of skeletal muscle differentiation, acting through a Myf5-dependent mechanism.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4 (MAP4K4) is expressed in all diabetes-relevant tissues and mediates cytokine-induced insulin resistance. We investigated whether common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the MAP4K4 locus associate with glucose intolerance, insulin resistance, impaired insulin release, or elevated plasma cytokines. The best hit was tested for association with type 2 diabetes. Subjects (N = 1,769) were recruited from the Tübingen Family (TÜF) study for type 2 diabetes and genotyped for tagging SNPs. In a subgroup, cytokines were measured. Association with type 2 diabetes was tested in a prospective case-cohort study (N = 2,971) derived from the EPIC-Potsdam study. Three SNPs (rs6543087, rs17801985, rs1003376) revealed nominal and two SNPs (rs11674694, rs11678405) significant associations with 2-hour glucose levels. SNPs rs6543087 and rs11674694 were also nominally associated with decreased insulin sensitivity. Another two SNPs (rs2236936, rs2236935) showed associations with reduced insulin release, driven by effects in lean subjects only. Three SNPs (rs11674694, rs13003883, rs2236936) revealed nominal associations with IL-6 levels. SNP rs11674694 was significantly associated with type 2 diabetes. In conclusion, common variation in MAP4K4 is associated with insulin resistance and β-cell dysfunction, possibly via this gene's role in inflammatory signalling. This variation's impact on insulin sensitivity may be more important since its effect on insulin release vanishes with increasing BMI.
Accumulating evidence indicates that mitogen-activated protein 4 kinase 4 (MAP4K4) is frequently overexpressed in many types of human cancers, and plays important roles in transformation, invasiveness, adhesion, and cell migration. The aim of the present study was to explore the expression and prognostic significance of MAP4K4 in lung adenocarcinoma. The results of real-time quantitative PCR and Western blotting analysis revealed an enhanced expression of MAP4K4 in lung adenocarcinomas relative to adjacent non-tumorous lung tissues at both transcriptional and translational levels. Immunohistochemistry showed that 130 of 309 (42%) lung adenocarcinomas had high expression of MAP4K4. MAP4K4 overexpression was significantly correlated with histological grade (p=0.027), pT status (p=0.048), pN status (p=0.006), and pleural invasion (p=0.024). Patients with high MAP4K4 expression had a shorter overall survival compared with those with low MAP4K4 expression, regardless of histological grade, pT status, pN status, or pleural invasion status. Multivariate analysis identified MAP4K4 as an independent prognostic factor for lung adenocarcinoma. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that elevated MAP4K4 expression is closely associated with lung adenocarcinoma progression and has an independent prognostic value in predicting overall survival for patients with lung adenocarcinoma.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) represent small noncoding RNAs that play a role in many diseases, including diabetes. miRNAs target genes important for pancreas development, β-cell proliferation, insulin secretion, and exocytosis. Previously, we documented that microRNA-30d (miR-30d), one of miRNAs up-regulated by glucose, induces insulin gene expression in pancreatic β-cells. Here, we found that the induction of insulin production by overexpression of miR-30d is associated with increased expression of MafA, a β-cell-specific transcription factor. Of interest, overexpression of miR-30d prevented the reduction in both MafA and insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS2) with TNF-α exposure. Moreover, we identified that mitogen-activated protein 4 kinase 4 (MAP4K4), a TNF-α-activated kinase, is a direct target of miR-30d. Overexpression of miR-30d protected β-cells against TNF-α suppression on both insulin transcription and insulin secretion through the down-regulation of MAP4K4 by the miR-30d. A decrease of miR-30d expression was observed in the islets of diabetic db/db mice, in which MAP4K4 expression level was elevated. Our data support the notion that miR-30d plays multiple roles in activating insulin transcription and protecting β-cell functions from impaired by proinflammatory cytokines and underscore the concept that miR-30d may represent a novel pharmacological target for diabetes intervention.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4 (MAP4K4) is overexpressed in many types of cancer. Herein, we aimed to investigate its expression pattern, clinical significance, and biological function in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
MAP4K4 expression was examined in 20 fresh HCCs and corresponding nontumor liver tissues. Immunohistochemistry for MAP4K4 was performed on additional 400 HCCs, of which 305 (76%) were positive for hepatitis B surface antigens. The clinical significance of MAP4K4 expression was analyzed. MAP4K4 downregulation was performed in HCC cell lines HepG2 and Hep3B with high abundance of MAP4K4, and the effects of MAP4K4 silencing on cell proliferation in vitro and tumor growth in vivo were evaluated. Quantitative real-time PCR arrays were employed to identify the MAP4K4-regulated signaling pathways.
MAP4K4 was aberrantly overexpressed in HCCs relative to adjacent nontumor liver tissues. This overexpression was significantly associated with larger tumor size, increased histologic grade, advanced tumor stage, and intrahepatic metastasis, as well as worse overall survival and higher early recurrence rate. Knockdown of the MAP4K4 expression reduced cell proliferation, blocked cell cycle at S phase, and increased apoptosis. The antitumor effects of MAP4K4 silencing were also observed in vivo, manifested as retarded tumor xenograft growth. Furthermore, multiple tumor progression-related signaling pathways including JNK, NFκB, and toll-like receptors were repressed by MAP4K4 downregulation.
MAP4K4 overexpression is an independent predictor of poor prognosis of HCC patients, and inhibition of its expression might be of therapeutic significance.
Obesity and type 2 diabetes present partially overlapping phenotypes with systemic inflammation as a common feature, raising the hypothesis that elevated cytokine levels may contribute to peripheral insulin resistance as well as the decreased beta cell functional mass observed in type 2 diabetes. In healthy humans, TNF-alpha infusion induces skeletal muscle insulin resistance. We now explore the impact of TNF-alpha on primary beta cell function and the underlying signaling pathways. Human and rat primary beta cells were sorted by FACS and cultured for 24 h +/- 20 ng/ml TNF-alpha to explore the impact on apoptosis, proliferation, and short-term insulin secretion (1 h, 2.8 mm glucose followed by 1 h, 16.7 mm glucose at the end of the 24-h culture period) as well as key signaling protein phosphorylation and expression. Prior exposure to TNF-alpha for 24 h inhibits glucose-stimulated insulin secretion from primary beta cells. This is associated with a decrease in glucose-stimulated phosphorylation of key proteins in the insulin signaling pathway including Akt, AS160, and other Akt substrates, ERK as well as the insulin receptor. Strikingly, TNF-alpha treatment decreased IRS-2 protein level by 46 +/- 7% versus control, although mRNA expression was unchanged. While TNF-alpha treatment increased MAP4K4 mRNA expression by 33 +/- 5%, knockdown of MAP4K4 by siRNA-protected beta cells against the detrimental effects of TNF-alpha on both insulin secretion and signaling. We thus identify MAP4K4 as a key upstream mediator of TNF-alpha action on the beta cell, making it a potential therapeutic target for preservation of beta cell function in type 2 diabetes.
Gene silencing by double-stranded RNA, denoted RNA interference, represents a new paradigm for rational drug design. However, the transformative therapeutic potential of short interfering RNA (siRNA) has been stymied by a key obstacle-safe delivery to specified target cells in vivo. Macrophages are particularly attractive targets for RNA interference therapy because they promote pathogenic inflammatory responses in diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, atherosclerosis, inflammatory bowel disease and diabetes. Here we report the engineering of beta1,3-D-glucan-encapsulated siRNA particles (GeRPs) as efficient oral delivery vehicles that potently silence genes in mouse macrophages in vitro and in vivo. Oral gavage of mice with GeRPs containing as little as 20 microg kg(-1) siRNA directed against tumour necrosis factor alpha (Tnf-alpha) depleted its messenger RNA in macrophages recovered from the peritoneum, spleen, liver and lung, and lowered serum Tnf-alpha levels. Screening with GeRPs for inflammation genes revealed that the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4 (Map4k4) is a previously unknown mediator of cytokine expression. Importantly, silencing Map4k4 in macrophages in vivo protected mice from lipopolysaccharide-induced lethality by inhibiting Tnf-alpha and interleukin-1beta production. This technology defines a new strategy for oral delivery of siRNA to attenuate inflammatory responses in human disease.
We examined preadipocyte differentiation in obese and nonobese individuals and the effect of cytokines and wingless-type MMTV (mouse mammary tumor virus) integration site family, member 3A (Wnt3a) protein on preadipocyte differentiation and phenotype.
Abdominal subcutaneous adipose tissue biopsies were obtained from a total of 51 donors with varying BMI. After isolation of the adipose and stromalvascular cells, inflammatory cells (CD14- and CD45-positive cells) were removed by immune magnetic separation. CD133-positive cells, containing early progenitor cells, were also isolated and quantified. The CD14- and CD45-negative preadipocytes were cultured with tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-6, resistin, or Wnt3a with or without a differentiation cocktail.
The number of preadipocytes able to differentiate to adipose cells was negatively correlated with both BMI and adipocyte cell size of the donors, whereas the number of CD133-positive cells was positively correlated with BMI, suggesting an impaired differentiation of preadipocytes in obesity. Cultured preadipocytes, like freshly isolated mature adipocytes, from obese individuals had an increased expression of mitogen-activated protein 4 kinase 4 (MAP4K4), which is known to inhibit peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma induction. TNF-alpha, but not IL-6 or resistin, increased Wnt10b, completely inhibited the normal differentiation of the preadipocytes, and instead induced a proinflammatory and macrophage-like phenotype of the cells.
The apparent number of preadipocytes in the abdominal subcutaneous tissue that can undergo differentiation is reduced in obesity with enlarged fat cells, possibly because of increased MAP4K4 levels. TNF-alpha promoted a macrophage-like phenotype of the preadipocytes, including several macrophage markers. These results document the plasticity of human preadipocytes and the inverse relationship between lipid storage and proinflammatory capacity.
Ral GTPase activity is a crucial cell-autonomous factor supporting tumor initiation and progression. To decipher pathways impacted by Ral, we have generated null and hypomorph alleles of the Drosophila melanogaster Ral gene. Ral null animals were not viable. Reduced Ral expression in cells of the sensory organ lineage had no effect on cell division but led to postmitotic cell-specific apoptosis. Genetic epistasis and immunofluorescence in differentiating sensory organs suggested that Ral activity suppresses c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation and induces p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase activation. HPK1/GCK-like kinase (HGK), a MAP kinase kinase kinase kinase that can drive JNK activation, was found as an exocyst-associated protein in vivo. The exocyst is a Ral effector, and the epistasis between mutants of Ral and of msn, the fly ortholog of HGK, suggest the functional relevance of an exocyst/HGK interaction. Genetic analysis also showed that the exocyst is required for the execution of Ral function in apoptosis. We conclude that in Drosophila Ral counters apoptotic programs to support cell fate determination by acting as a negative regulator of JNK activity and a positive activator of p38 MAP kinase. We propose that the exocyst complex is Ral executioner in the JNK pathway and that a cascade from Ral to the exocyst to HGK would be a molecular basis of Ral action on JNK.
Cell motility is a complex biological process, involved in development, inflammation, homeostasis, and pathological processes such as the invasion and metastatic spread of cancer. Here, we describe a genomic screen designed to identify inhibitors of cell migration. A library of 10,996 small interfering RNAs (targeting 5,234 human genes) was screened for their ability to block the migration of a highly motile ovarian carcinoma cell line, SKOV-3, by using a 384-well wound-healing assay coupled with automated microscopy and wound quantification. Two or more small interfering RNAs against four genes, CDK7, DYRK1B, MAP4K4 (NIK/HGK) (MAP4K4, mitogen-activated protein 4 kinase 4), and SCCA-1 (SerpinB3), potently blocked the migration of SKOV-3 cells, concordant with reduced transcript levels. Further studies of the promigratory role of MAP4K4 showed that the knockdown of this transcript inhibited the migration of multiple carcinoma cell lines, indicating a broad role in cell motility and potently suppressed the invasion of SKOV-3 cells in vitro. The effect of MAP4K4 on cellular migration was found to be mediated through c-Jun N-terminal kinase, independent of AP1 activation and downstream transcription. Accordingly, small molecule inhibition of c-Jun N-terminal kinase suppressed SKOV-3 cell migration, underscoring the potential therapeutic utility of mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway inhibition in cancer progression.
The yeast serine/threonine kinase STE20 activates a signaling cascade that includes STE11 (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase), STE7 (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase), and FUS3/KSS1 (mitogen-activated protein kinase) in response to signals from both Cdc42 and the heterotrimeric G proteins associated with transmembrane pheromone receptors. Using degenerate polymerase chain reaction, we have isolated a human cDNA encoding a protein kinase homologous to STE20. This protein kinase, designated HPK/GCK-like kinase (HGK), has nucleotide sequences that encode an open reading frame of 1165 amino acids with 11 kinase subdomains. HGK was a serine/threonine protein kinase that specifically activated the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling pathway when transfected into 293T cells, but it did not stimulate either the extracellular signal-regulated kinase or p38 kinase pathway. HGK also increased AP-1-mediated transcriptional activity in vivo. HGK-induced JNK activation was inhibited by the dominant-negative MKK4 and MKK7 mutants. The dominant-negative mutant of TAK1, but not MEKK1 or MAPK upstream kinase (MUK), strongly inhibited HGK-induced JNK activation. TNF-alpha activated HGK in 293T cells, as well as the dominant-negative HGK mutants, inhibited TNF-alpha-induced JNK activation. These results indicate that HGK, a novel activator of the JNK pathway, may function through TAK1, and that the HGK --> TAK1 --> MKK4, MKK7 --> JNK kinase cascade may mediate the TNF-alpha signaling pathway.
Proinflammatory cytokines play important roles in insulin resistance. Here we report that mice with a T-cell-specific conditional knockout of HGK (T-HGK cKO) develop systemic inflammation and insulin resistance. This condition is ameliorated by either IL-6 or IL-17 neutralization. HGK directly phosphorylates TRAF2, leading to its lysosomal degradation and subsequent inhibition of IL-6 production. IL-6-overproducing HGK-deficient T cells accumulate in adipose tissue and further differentiate into IL-6/IL-17 double-positive cells. Moreover, CCL20 neutralization or CCR6 deficiency reduces the Th17 population or insulin resistance in T-HGK cKO mice. In addition, leptin receptor deficiency in T cells inhibits Th17 differentiation and improves the insulin sensitivity in T-HGK cKO mice, which suggests that leptin cooperates with IL-6 to promote Th17 differentiation. Thus, HGK deficiency induces TRAF2/IL-6 upregulation, leading to IL-6/leptin-induced Th17 differentiation in adipose tissue and subsequent insulin resistance. These findings provide insight into the reciprocal regulation between the immune system and the metabolism.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rapidly progressing neurodegenerative disease, characterized by motor neuron (MN) death, for which there are no truly effective treatments. Here, we describe a new small molecule survival screen carried out using MNs from both wild-type and mutant SOD1 mouse embryonic stem cells. Among the hits we found, kenpaullone had a particularly impressive ability to prolong the healthy survival of both types of MNs that can be attributed to its dual inhibition of GSK-3 and HGK kinases. Furthermore, kenpaullone also strongly improved the survival of human MNs derived from ALS-patient-induced pluripotent stem cells and was more active than either of two compounds, olesoxime and dexpramipexole, that recently failed in ALS clinical trials. Our studies demonstrate the value of a stem cell approach to drug discovery and point to a new paradigm for identification and preclinical testing of future ALS therapeutics.
To investigate the effects of RNA interference targeting hepatocyte progenitor kinase-like kinase (HGK) in the invasion and adhesion of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell line HepG2.
Three paired insert DNA fragments specific to HGK gene and one negative control DNA fragment were synthesized and inserted into RNAi-Ready pSIREN-RetroQ-ZsGreen vector. Western blotting assay and real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were used to screen the vector with a highest inhibitory rate. The vector was used to generate recombinant retrovirus specific to HGK. 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-2h-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay was used to examine cell growth; wound closure assay and cell adhesion assay were employed to investigate cell migration and adhesion respectively; and transwell assay and three-dimensional culture invasion assay were used to detect cell invasion. The expressions of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2, MMP-9 and nuclear factor (NF)-κB were detected by Western blotting assay.
The real time RT-PCR and Western blotting assay showed that cells transfected with retrovirus mediating RNAi targeting of HGK (RV-shHGK)-1 vector had the strongest inhibition of HGK protein, with an inhibition rate of 76%, and this vector was used to generate recombinant retrovirus RV-shHGK-1. Cell adhesion assay and MTT assay found that cell adhesion and growth of the cells infected with RV-shHGK-1 were significantly lower than those of the control cells (P < 0.05). Wound closure assay, transwell assay and three-dimensional culture invasion assay showed that the cell invasiveness was significantly less in HGK knockdown cells than in the control cells (P < 0.05). The expressions of MMP-2, MMP-9 and NF-κB were inhibited in HepG2 cells infected with RV-shHGK-1.
Down-regulation of HGK can obviously inhibit the migration and invasion of HepG2 cells in vitro. HGK may be a new therapeutic target for treatment of HCC.
Constitutive activation of RhoA-dependent RhoA kinase (ROCK) signalling is known to promote cellular transformation and the ROCK inhibitor Y-27632 has the ability to suppress focus formation of RhoA transformed NIH3T3 cells.
Sixty-four novel structural analogues of Y27632 were synthesised and tested for their ability to persistently inhibit the transformation of NIH3T3 cells by Rho guanidine exchange factor 16 (ARHGEF16) or Ras. In vitro kinase inhibitor profiling, co-culture of transformed cells with non-transformed cells and a novel Lucifer yellow/PKH67 dye transfer method were used to investigate their mode of action.
Four Y27632 analogues inhibited transformed focus formation that persisted when the compound was withdrawn. No toxicity was observed against either transformed or non-transformed cells and the effect was dependent on co-culture of these two cell types. In vitro kinase inhibitor profiling indicated that these compounds had reduced activity against ROCK compared with Y27632, targeting instead Aurora A (AURKA), p38 (MAPK14) and Hgk (MAP4K4). Dye transfer analysis showed they increased gap junction intercellular communication (GJIC) between transformed and non-transformed cells.
These data are the first to suggest that transient blockade of specific kinases can induce a persistent inhibition of non-contact inhibited transformed colony formation and can also remove pre-formed colonies. These effects could potentially be mediated by the observed increase in GJIC between transformed and non-transformed cells. Selection of kinase inhibitors with this property may thus provide a novel strategy for cancer chemoprevention.
HGK (hepatocyte progenitor kinase-like/germinal center kinase-like kinase) is a member of the human STE20/mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase family of serine/threonine kinases and is the ortholog of mouse NIK (Nck-interacting kinase). We have cloned a novel splice variant of HGK from a human tumor line and have further identified a complex family of HGK splice variants. We showed HGK to be highly expressed in most tumor cell lines relative to normal tissue. An active role for this kinase in transformation was suggested by an inhibition of H-Ras(V12)-induced focus formation by expression of inactive, dominant-negative mutants of HGK in both fibroblast and epithelial cell lines. Expression of an inactive mutant of HGK also inhibited the anchorage-independent growth of cells yet had no effect on proliferation in monolayer culture. Expression of HGK mutants modulated integrin receptor expression and had a striking effect on hepatocyte growth factor-stimulated epithelial cell invasion. Together, these results suggest an important role for HGK in cell transformation and invasiveness.
A novel human guanylate-binding protein (GBP) hGBP3 was identified and characterized. Similar as the two human guanylate-binding proteins hGBP1 and hGBP2, hGBP3 has the first two motifs of the three classical guanylate-binding motifs, GXXXXGKS (T) and DXXG, but lacks the N (T) KXD motif. Escherichia coli-expressed hGBP3 protein specifically binds to guanosine triphosphate (GTP). Using a yeast two-hybrid system, it was revealed that the N-terminal region of hGBP3 binds to the C-terminal regulatory domain of NIK/HGK, a member of the group I GCK (germinal center kinase) family. This interaction was confirmed by in vitro glutathione-S-transferase (GST) pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation assays.
Tumor necrosis factor superfamily ligands and receptors are responsible for development, immunity, and homeostasis of metazoan organisms. Thus, it is not surprising that signals emanating from these receptors are tightly regulated. Binding of TNF-related weak inducer of apoptosis (TWEAK) to its cognate receptor, FN14, triggers the assembly of receptor-associated signaling complex, which allows the activation of canonical and non-canonical nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) as well as mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathways. Ubiquitin ligases cellular inhibitor of apoptosis 1 and 2 (c-IAP1 and 2) and adaptor proteins TNFR-associated factors 2 and 3 (TRAF2 and TRAF3) are crucial for the regulation of TWEAK signaling as they facilitate the recruitment of distal signaling components including IKK and linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex complexes. At the same time c-IAP1/2, together with TRAF2 and TRAF3, promote constitutive ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of NF-κB inducing kinase (NIK) - a kinase with critical role in the activation of non-canonical NF-κB signaling. While c-IAP1/2 mediated ubiquitination allows the activation of TWEAK-stimulated canonical NF-κB signaling, these E3 ligases are negative regulators of non-canonical signaling. TWEAK stimulation prompts the recruitment of c-IAP1/2 as well as TRAF2 and TRAF3 to the FN14 signaling complex leading to c-IAP1/2 autoubiquitination and degradation, which stabilizes NIK and allows subsequent phosphorylation of IKKα and partial proteasomal processing of p100 to activate gene expression. Recent studies have revealed that the spatio-temporal pattern of TWEAK-stimulated ubiquitination is a carefully orchestrated process involving several substrates that are modified by different ubiquitin linkages. Understanding the significance of ubiquitination for TWEAK signaling is important for the overall understanding of TWEAK biology and for the design of therapeutics that can be used in the treatment of human pathologies that are driven by TWEAK/FN14 expression and activity.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS), such as hydrogen peroxide, superoxide anion radical or hydroxyl radical, play an important role in inflammation processes as well as in transduction of signals from receptors to interleukin -1β (IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) or lipopolysaccharides (LPS). NADPH oxidase increases the ROS levels, leading to inactivation of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) and protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP): MAPK phosphatase 1 (MKP-1). Inactivation of phosphatases results in activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades: c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38 and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk), which, in turn, activate cytosolic phospholipase A₂ (cPLA₂). ROS cause cytoplasmic calcium influx by activation of phospholipase C (PLC) and phosphorylation of IP₃-sensitive calcium channels. ROS activate nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) via IκB kinase (IKK) through phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), tumor suppressor phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) and protein kinase B (Akt/PKB) or NF-κB-inducing kinase (NIK). IKK phosphorylates NF-κB α subunit (IκBα) at Ser³². Oxidative stress inactivates NIK and IκB kinase γ subunit/NF-κB essential modulator (IKKγ/NEMO), which might cause activation of NF-κB that is independent on IKK and inhibitor of IκBα degradation, including phosphorylation of Tyr⁴² at IκBα by c-Src and spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk), phosphorylation of the domain rich in proline, glutamic acid, serine and threonine (PEST) sequence by casein kinase II and inactivation of protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B). NF-κB and MAPK cascades-activated transcription factor activator protein 1 (AP-1) and CREB-binding protein (CBP/p300) lead to expression of cytosolic phospholipase A₂ (cPLA₂), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and membrane-bound prostaglandin E synthase 1 (mPGES-1), and thus to increased release of arachidonic acid and production of prostaglandins, particularly prostaglandin E₂ (PGE₂). ROS increase the activity of hematopoietic-type PGD synthase (H-PGDS), and, as a result, the production of prostaglandin D₂ (PGD₂). However, the superoxide radical reacts with nitric oxide forming peroxynitrite that inactivates prostaglandin I synthase (PGIS), suppressing the production of prostaglandin I₂ (PGI₂). ROS do not affect thromboxane synthesis in a direct manner; this is achieved by an increase in cPLA₂ activity and COX-2 expression. The aim of this review was to summarize knowledge of influence of ROS on the synthesis of prostanoids from arachidonic acid.
Modulated immune signal (CD14-TLR and TNF) in leishmaniasis can be linked to EGFR pathway involved in wound healing, through crosstalk points. This signaling network can be further linked to a synthetic gene circuit acting as a positive feedback loop to elicit a synchronized intercellular communication among the immune cells which may contribute to a better understanding of signaling dynamics in leishmaniasis.
Network reconstruction with positive feedback loop, simulation (ODE 15s solver) and sensitivity analysis of CD14-TLR, TNF and EGFR was done in SimBiology (MATLAB 7.11.1). Cytoscape and adjacency matrix were used to calculate network topology. PCA was extracted by using sensitivity coefficient in MATLAB. Model reduction was done using time, flux and sensitivity score.
Network has five crosstalk points: NIK, IκB-NFκB and MKK (4/7, 3/6, 1/2) which show high flux and sensitivity. PI3K in EGFR pathway shows high flux and sensitivity. PCA score was high for cytoplasmic ERK1/2, PI3K, Atk, STAT1/3 and nuclear JNK. Of the 125 parameters, 20% are crucial as deduced by model reduction.
EGFR can be linked to CD14-TLR and TNF through the MAPK crosstalk points. These pathways may be controlled through Ras and Raf that lie upstream of signaling components ERK ½ (c) and JNK (n) that have a high PCA score via a synthetic gene circuit for activating cell-cell communication to elicit an inflammatory response. Also a disease resolving effect may be achieved through PI3K in the EGFR pathway.
The reconstructed signaling network can be linked to a gene circuit with a positive feedback loop, for cell-cell communication resulting in synchronized response in the immune cell population, for disease resolving effect in leishmaniasis.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway plays an important role in response to viral infection. The aim of this study was to explore the function and mechanism of MAPK signaling pathway in enterovirus 71 (EV71) infection of human rhabdomyosarcoma (RD) cells.
Apoptosis of RD cells was observed using annexin V-FITC/PI binding assay under a fluorescence microscope. Cellular RNA was extracted and transcribed to cDNA. The expressions of 56 genes of MAPK signaling pathway in EV71-infected RD cells at 8h and 20h after infection were analyzed by PCR array. The levels of IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, and TNF-α in the supernatant of RD cells infected with EV71 at different time points were measured by ELISA.
The viability of RD cells decreased obviously within 48h after EV71 infection. Compared with the control group, EV71 infection resulted in the significantly enhanced releases of IL-2, IL-4, IL-10 and TNF-α from infected RD cells (p<0.05). At 8h after infection, the expressions of c-Jun, c-Fos, IFN-β, MEKK1, MLK3 and NIK genes in EV71-infected RD cells were up-regulated by 2.08-6.12-fold, whereas other 19 genes (e.g. AKT1, AKT2, E2F1, IKK and NF-κB1) exhibited down-regulation. However, at 20h after infection, those MAPK signaling molecules including MEKK1, ASK1, MLK2, MLK3, NIK, MEK1, MEK2, MEK4, MEK7, ERK1, JNK1 and JNK2 were up-regulated. In addition, the expressions of AKT2, ELK1, c-Jun, c-Fos, NF-κB p65, PI3K and STAT1 were also increased.
EV71 infection induces the differential gene expressions of MAPK signaling pathway such as ERK, JNK and PI3K/AKT in RD cells, which may be associated with the secretions of inflammatory cytokines and host cell apoptosis.
Kaempferol, one of the phytoestrogens, is found in berries and Brassica and Allium species and is known to have antioxidative and anti-inflammatory properties. In the present study, we examined the molecular mechanisms underlying the anti-inflammation effect of kaempferol in an aged animal model. To examine the effect of kaempferol in aged Sprague-Dawley rats, kaempferol was fed at 2 or 4 mg/kg/day for 10 days. The data show that kaempferol exhibited the ability to maintain redox balance. Kaempferol suppressed nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation and expression of its target genes cyclooxygenase-2, inducible nitric oxide synthase, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, and regulated upon activation, and normal T-cell expressed and secreted in aged rat kidney and in tert-butylhydroperoxide-induced YPEN-1 cells. Furthermore, kaempferol suppressed the increase of the pro-inflammatory NF-kappaB cascade through modulation of nuclear factor-inducing kinase (NIK)/IkappaB kinase (IKK) and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in aged rat kidney. Based on these results, we concluded that anti-oxidative kaempferol suppressed the activation of inflammatory NF-kappaB transcription factor through NIK/IKK and MAPKs in aged rat kidney.
TNFalpha exerts apoptosis throughout an intracellular transduction pathway that involves the kinase proteins TRAF-2 (integration point of apoptotic and survival signals), ASK1 (pro-apoptotic protein), MEK-4 (p38 activator and metastasis suppressor gene), JNK (stress mitogen activated protein kinase) and the transcription factor AP-1. TNFalpha also exerts proliferation by p38 activation, or when TRAF-2 simultaneously induces the transcription factor NF-kappaB by NIK. NIK and p38 may also be activated by IL-1. P38 activated several transcription factors such as Elk-1, ATF-2 and NF-kappaB. NIK also may activate NF-kappaB. The aim of the present article was to evaluate the different components of this TNFalpha/IL-1 transduction pathway in human prostate carcinoma (PC) in comparison with normal human prostate. In prostate cancer, pro-apoptotic TNFalpha/AP-1 pathway is probably inactivated by different factors such as p21 (at ASK-1 level) and bcl-2 (at JNK level), or diverted towards p38 or NIK activation. IL-1alpha enhances proliferation through IL-1RI that activates either NIK or p38 transduction pathway. P38 and NIK activate different transcription factors related with cell proliferation and survival such as ATF-2, Elk-1 or NF-kappaB. In order to search a possible target to cancer prostate treatment we proposed that inhibition of several proinflamatory cytokines such as IL-1 and TNFalpha might be a possible target for PC treatment, because decrease the activity of all transduction pathway members that activate transcription factors as NF-kappaB, Elk-1 or ATF-2.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been implicated in the regulation of NF-kappaB activation, which plays an important role in inflammation and cell survival. However, the molecular mechanisms of ROS in NF-kappaB activation remain poorly defined. We found that the non-provitamin A carotenoid, lutein, decreased intracellular H(2)O(2) accumulation by scavenging superoxide and H(2)O(2) and the NF-kappaB-regulated inflammatory genes, iNOS, TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and cyclooxygenase-2, in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated macrophages. Lutein inhibited LPS-induced NF-kappaB activation, which highly correlated with its inhibitory effect on LPS-induced IkappaB kinase (IKK) activation, IkappaB degradation, nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB, and binding of NF-kappaB to the kappaB motif of the iNOS promoter. This compound inhibited LPS- and H(2)O(2)-induced increases in phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) activity, PTEN inactivation, NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK), and Akt phosphorylation, which are all upstream of IKK activation, but did not affect the interaction between Toll-like receptor 4 and MyD88 and the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases. The NADPH oxidase inhibitor apocynin and gp91(phox) deletion reduced the LPS-induced NF-kappaB signaling pathway as lutein did. Moreover, lutein treatment and gp91(phox) deletion decreased the expressional levels of the inflammatory genes in vivo and protected mice from LPS-induced lethality. Our data suggest that H(2)O(2) modulates IKK-dependent NF-kappaB activation by promoting the redox-sensitive activation of the PI3K/PTEN/Akt and NIK/IKK pathways. These findings further provide new insights into the pathophysiological role of intracellular H(2)O(2) in the NF-kappaB signal pathway and inflammatory process.
We examined the role of osteopontin (OPN) in NIK- and MEKK1-dependent MMP-9 activation, melanoma growth and lung metastasis and its clinical significance in malignant melanoma. Here we report that OPN induces alphavbeta3 integrin-mediated MEKK1-dependent JNK1 phosphorylation. OPN stimulates NIK- or JNK1-dependent c-Jun expression. In contrast, OPN induces MEKK1-dependent JNK1 activation that leads to downregulation of ERK1/2 activation. OPN triggers NIK- and MEKK1-dependent AP-1 activation whereas NIK-dependent AP-1 activation is independent of JNK1 that leads to pro-MMP-9 activation. In vivo studies indicate that the levels of pNIK and MMP-9 are significantly higher in the OPN-induced primary tumor and metastasized lung compared to control. Clinical data revealed that the enhanced level of OPN and pNIK expression in the skin biopsies correlates with Clark's level and Breslow thickness. Altogether, OPN regulates negative cross-talk between NIK/ERK and MEKK1/JNK1 pathways that controls melanoma progression.
MAPK kinase 4 (MKK4) is a dual-specificity kinase that activates both JNK and p38 MAPK. However, the mechanism by which MKK4 regulates TNF-induced apoptosis is not fully understood. Therefore, we used fibroblasts derived from MKK4 gene-deleted (MKK4-KO) mice to determine the role of this kinase in TNF signaling. We found that when compared with the wild-type cells, deletion of MKK4 gene enhanced TNF-induced apoptosis, and this correlated with down-regulation of TNF-induced cell-proliferative (COX-2 and cyclin D1) and antiapoptotic (survivin, IAP1, XIAP, Bcl-2, Bcl-x(L), and cFLIP) gene products, all regulated by NF-kappaB. Indeed we found that TNF-induced NF-kappaB activation was abrogated in MKK4 gene-deleted cells, as determined by DNA binding. Further investigation revealed that TNF-induced I kappaB alpha kinase activation, I kappaB alpha phosphorylation, I kappaB alpha degradation, and p65 nuclear translocation were all suppressed in MKK4-KO cells. NF-kappaB reporter assay revealed that NF-kappaB activation induced by TNF, TNFR1, TRADD, TRAF2, NIK, and I kappaB alpha kinase was modulated in gene-deleted cells. Overall, our results indicate that MKK4 plays a central role in TNF-induced apoptosis through the regulation of NF-kappaB-regulated gene products.
Although butein (3,4,2',4'-tetrahydroxychalcone) is known to exhibit anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, and anti-fibrogenic activities, very little is known about its mechanism of action. Because numerous effects modulated by butein can be linked to interference with the NF-kappaB pathway, we investigated in detail the effect of this chalcone on NF-kappaB activity. As examined by DNA binding, we found that butein suppressed tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced NF-kappaB activation in a dose- and time-dependent manner; suppressed the NF-kappaB activation induced by various inflammatory agents and carcinogens; and inhibited the NF-kappaB reporter activity induced by TNFR1, TRADD, TRAF2, NIK, TAK1/TAB1, and IKK-beta. We also found that butein blocked the phosphorylation and degradation of IkappaBalpha by inhibiting IkappaBalpha kinase (IKK) activation. We found the inactivation of IKK by butein was direct and involved cysteine residue 179. This correlated with the suppression of phosphorylation and the nuclear translocation of p65. In this study, butein also inhibited the expression of the NF-kappaB-regulated gene products involved in anti-apoptosis (IAP2, Bcl-2, and Bcl-xL), proliferation (cyclin D1 and c-Myc), and invasion (COX-2 and MMP-9). Suppression of these gene products correlated with enhancement of the apoptosis induced by TNF and chemotherapeutic agents; and inhibition of cytokine-induced cellular invasion. Overall, our results indicated that antitumor and anti-inflammatory activities previously assigned to butein may be mediated in part through the direct inhibition of IKK, leading to the suppression of the NF-kappaB activation pathway.
Two-component systems, consisting of proteins with histidine kinase and/or response regulator domains, regulate environmental responses in bacteria, Archaea, fungi, slime molds, and plants. Here, we characterize RRG-1, a response regulator protein from the filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa. The cell lysis phenotype of Delta rrg-1 mutants is reminiscent of osmotic-sensitive (os) mutants, including nik-1/os-1 (a histidine kinase) and strains defective in components of a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway: os-4 (MAPK kinase kinase), os-5 (MAPK kinase), and os-2 (MAPK). Similar to os mutants, Delta rrg-1 strains are sensitive to hyperosmotic conditions, and they are resistant to the fungicides fludioxonil and iprodione. Like os-5, os-4, and os-2 mutants, but in contrast to nik-1/os-1 strains, Delta rrg-1 mutants do not produce female reproductive structures (protoperithecia) when nitrogen starved. OS-2-phosphate levels are elevated in wild-type cells exposed to NaCl or fludioxonil, but they are nearly undetectable in Delta rrg-1 strains. OS-2-phosphate levels are also low in Delta rrg-1, os-2, and os-4 mutants under nitrogen starvation. Analysis of the rrg-1(D921N) allele, mutated in the predicted phosphorylation site, provides support for phosphorylation-dependent and -independent functions for RRG-1. The data indicate that RRG-1 controls vegetative cell integrity, hyperosmotic sensitivity, fungicide resistance, and protoperithecial development through regulation of the OS-4/OS-5/OS-2 MAPK pathway.
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the ability and mechanism of action of kaempferol, which is contained in extracts from Nelumbo nucifera, a well-known Oriental herb used in traditional medicine, with regard to the inhibition of iNOS and TNF-alpha expression in aged rat gingival tissues. We conducted an investigation into the age-related effects of kaempferol on reactive oxygen species (ROS) and GSH oxidative status in samples of aged gingival tissues. Western blotting was conducted in order to determine the expression of iNOS, TNF-alpha, p38 MAPK, NIK/IKK, p65 and IkappaBalpha in the sample tissues. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) were conducted in an effort to characterize the binding activities of NF-kappaB transcription factors in the aged rat gingival nuclear extracts. Our results indicate that kaempferol reduced ROS levels and augmented GSH levels in a dose-dependent manner in the aged gingival tissues. Kaempferol was shown to effect a significant reduction in iNOS and TNF-alpha protein levels, as compared to control gingival tissue samples. The results of Western blot analysis revealed that kaempferol treatment effected the reduction of iNOS and TNF-alpha expression, decreased nuclear p65 and increased cytosolic p65, down-regulation of Erk, p38, JNK and NIK/IKK expression. The EMSA results also indicated that kaempferol, when administered to the rat tissues, attenuated the NF-kappaB nuclear binding activity. Kaempferol may inhibit ROS generation via the inhibition of iNOS and TNF-alpha expression in aged gingival tissues, via the modulation of the NF-kappaB and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways.
The role of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathways, especially NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK)-mediated alternative pathway, in CD40-mediated interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-12 productions by immature or mature dendritic cells (DCs) was investigated. Murine myeloid DCs were matured by treatment with lipopolysaccharide. CD40 ligation induced modest or vigorous cytokine productions in immature or mature DCs, respectively. After CD40 ligation, p38 MAPK was significantly activated in either immature or mature DCs. SB203580, a p38 MAPK inhibitor, markedly decreased CD40-mediated IL-6 and IL-12 productions in immature DCs. In mature DCs, SB203580 significantly decreased CD40-mediated IL-6 but not IL-12 production. On the other hand, CD40 ligation induced vigorous activation of the NF-kappaB alternative pathway including p100 phosphorylation and subsequent nuclear translocations of p52, a processed form of p100, and RelB in mature but not immature DCs. The CD40-mediated phosphorylation of p100 was completely abolished in NIK-mutated mature DCs. The NIK mutation markedly reduced CD40-mediated IL-12 but not IL-6 production by mature DCs. Taken together, we concluded that IL-6 and IL-12 productions in response to CD40 ligation were controlled by p38 MAPK and NIK mediated alternative pathway, respectively, in mature DCs.
The insulin-regulated glucose transporter GLUT4 is a key modulator of whole body glucose homeostasis, and its selective loss in adipose tissue or skeletal muscle causes insulin resistance and diabetes. Here we report an RNA interference-based screen of protein kinases expressed in adipocytes and identify four negative regulators of insulin-responsive glucose transport: the protein kinases PCTAIRE-1 (PCTK1), PFTAIRE-1 (PFTK1), IkappaB kinase alpha, and MAP4K4/NIK. Integrin-linked protein kinase was identified as a positive regulator of this process. We characterized one of these hits, MAP4K4/NIK, and found that it is unique among mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases expressed in cultured adipocytes in attenuating hexose transport. Remarkably, MAP4K4/NIK suppresses expression of the adipogenic transcription factors C/EBPalpha, C/EBPbeta, and PPARgamma and of GLUT4 itself in these cells. RNA interference-mediated depletion of MAP4K4/NIK early in differentiation enhances adipogenesis and triglyceride deposition, and even in fully differentiated adipocytes its loss up-regulates GLUT4. Conversely, conditions that inhibit adipogenesis such as TNF-alpha treatment or depletion of PPARgamma markedly up-regulate MAP4K4/NIK expression in cultured adipocytes. Furthermore, TNF-alpha signaling to down-regulate GLUT4 is impaired in the absence of MAP4K4/NIK, indicating that MAP4K4 expression is required for optimal TNF-alpha action. These results reveal a MAP4K4/NIK-dependent signaling pathway that potently inhibits PPARgamma-responsive gene expression, adipogenesis, and insulin-stimulated glucose transport.
Nck-interacting kinase-like embryo-specific kinase (NESK) is a protein kinase that is predominantly expressed in skeletal muscle during the late stages of mouse embryogenesis. NESK belongs to the germinal center kinase (GCK) family and selectively activates the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway when overexpressed in cultured cells. Some members of the GCK family have been shown to be proteolytically cleaved and activated during apoptosis. Here, we report that NESK is also proteolytically cleaved during apoptosis. Treatment of NESK-transfected HeLa cells with TNF-alpha in the presence of cycloheximide or with staurosporine induced proteolytic cleavage of NESK. The cleavage of NESK occurred at two sites, generating three fragments: an N-terminal fragment containing a kinase domain, an intermediate fragment and a C-terminal fragment containing a regulatory CNH domain. These two cleavages occurred in a stepwise manner and were dependent on a caspase activity. The cleavage sites were identified as aspartic acid residues at 868 and 1091. The N-terminal fragment had less kinase activity than the full-length NESK and did not activate the JNK pathway. In contrast, the C-terminal fragment activated the JNK pathway more strongly than the full-length NESK and promoted TNF-alpha-induced apoptotic cell death. These results implicate NESK in the JNK pathway-mediated promotion of apoptosis through its C-terminal regulatory domain generated by proteolytic cleavage during apoptosis, in a unique manner different from other GCK family kinases.
Misshapen/NIKs-related kinase (MINK) is a member of the germinal center family of kinases that are homologous to the yeast sterile 20 (Ste20) kinases and regulate a wide variety of cellular processes, including cell morphology, cytoskeletal rearrangement, and survival. Here, we present the cloning and functional characterization of a novel human Misshapen/NIKs-related kinase beta (hMINK beta) that encodes a polypeptide of 1312 amino acids. hMINK beta is ubiquitously expressed in most tissues with at least five alternatively spliced isoforms. Similar to Nck interacting kinase (NIK) and Traf2 and Nck-interacting kinase (TNIK), hMINK beta moderately activates c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and associates with Nck via the intermediate domain in the yeast two-hybrid system and in a glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assay. Interestingly, overexpression of the kinase domain deleted and kinase-inactive mutants of hMINK beta in human fibrosarcoma HT1080 cells enhanced cell spreading, actin stress fiber formation, and adhesion to extracellular matrix, as well as decreased cell motility and cell invasion. Furthermore, these mutants also promoted cell-cell adhesion in human breast carcinoma MCF7 cells, evidenced with cell growth in clusters and increased membrane localization of beta-catenin, a multifunctional protein involved in E-cadherin-mediated cell adhesion. Finally, hMINK beta protein was found to colocalize with the Golgi apparatus, implicating that hMINK beta might exert its functions, at least in part, through the modulation of intracellular protein transport. Taken together, these results suggest that hMINK beta plays an important role in cytoskeleton reorganization, cell adhesion, and cell motility.
4-Hydroxyhexenal (HHE) is known to affect redox balance during aging, included are vascular dysfunctions. To better understand vascular abnormality through the molecular alterations resulting from HHE accumulation in aging processes, we set out to determine whether up-regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) by HHE is mediated through nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) activation in endothelial cells. HHE induced NF-kappaB activation by inhibitor of kappaB (IkappaB) phosphorylation via the IkappaB kinase (IKK)/NF-kappaB inducing kinase (NIK) pathway. HHE increased the activity of p38 MAPK and extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK), but not c-jun NH(2)-terminal kinase, indicating that p38 MAPK and ERK are closely involved in HHE-induced NF-kappaB transactivation. Pretreatment with ERK inhibitor PD98059, and p38 MAPK inhibitor SB203580, attenuated the induction of p65 translocation, IkappaB phosphorylation, and NF-kappaB luciferase activity. These findings strongly suggest that HHE induces NF-kappaB activation through IKK/NIK pathway and/or p38 MAPK and ERK activation associated with oxidative stress in endothelial cells.
Chemoprevention by the dithiolethione analogue oltipraz (4-methyl-5-(2-pyrazinyl)-1,2-dithiole-3-thione) may occur through several mechanisms, among them stimulation of detoxication activity. The phase II detoxication enzyme, NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1; EC 1.6.99.2) also known as quinone reductase (QR) is well established to undergo transcriptional activation following oltipraz treatment of colon cancer cells in culture. Promoter analysis of the QR gene in oltipraztreated cells reveals the involvement of both the AP-1 and NF-kappaB elements in the response. The emerging role of NF-kappaB in cell survival prompted a fuller analysis of effects of oltipraz on this pathway. Oltipraz treatment of both HCT116 and HT29 cells results in the induction of proteins involved in both pathways of NF-kappaB activation, including p65, IkappaB kinase alpha (IKKalpha), IkappaB kinase beta (IKKbeta), and NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK). IkappaBalpha total protein levels were unchanged, but phosphorylation of the inhibitor was also induced in both lines. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) analysis confirmed induction of protein binding to a consensus NF-kappaB element, and transcriptional activation was further confirmed using a reporter construct. Transcriptional activation of QR was decreased in a dose-dependent manner by dominant-negative NF-kappaB in both cell lines. The molecular mechanism that triggers IKK activation in response to oltipraz was also examined using inhibitory constructs of NIK and mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase kinase 3 (MEKK3). We found that both MEKK3 and NIK exert effects on IKKalpha/beta activation, but through different pathways. Furthermore, the receptor-interacting protein (RIP) was found to interact strongly with MEKK3 during oltipraz-induced NF-kappaB signaling, implying a role for tumor necrosis factor receptor signaling in the action of oltipraz. These results implicate a novel signaling pathway for the action of oltipraz in QR gene regulation.
Helicobacter pylori-infected gastric mucosa displays a conspicuous infiltration of mononuclear cells and neutrophils. RANTES (short for "regulated upon activation, normal T cell expressed and secreted") is a chemoattractant cytokine (chemokine) important in the infiltration of T lymphocytes and monocytes. RANTES may therefore contribute to the cellular infiltrate in the H. pylori-infected gastric mucosa. The aim of this study was to analyze the molecular mechanism responsible for H. pylori-mediated RANTES expression. We observed that gastric epithelial cells produced RANTES upon coculture with H. pylori. In addition, H. pylori induced RANTES mRNA expression and an increase in luciferase activity in cells which were transfected with a luciferase reporter construct derived from the RANTES promoter, in gastric epithelial cells, indicating that the induction of RANTES production occurred at the transcriptional level. Induction of RANTES was dependent on an intact cag pathogenicity island. Activation of the RANTES promoter by H. pylori occurred through the action of NF-kappa B. Transfection of kinase-deficient mutants of I kappa B kinase (IKK) and NF-kappa B-inducing kinase (NIK) inhibited H. pylori-mediated RANTES activation. In contrast, tumor necrosis factor alpha- or interleukin-1/Toll-like receptor signaling molecules-such as mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase 1, MyD88, and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-did not play a role in RANTES activation by H. pylori. Collectively, H. pylori induced NF-kappa B activation through an intracellular signaling pathway that involved IKK and NIK, leading to RANTES gene transcription. RANTES induction by H. pylori may play an important role in gastric inflammation.
The nucleating activity of the Arp2/3 complex promotes the assembly of branched actin filaments that drive plasma membrane protrusion in migrating cells. Arp2/3 complex binding to nucleation-promoting factors of the WASP and WAVE families was previously thought to be sufficient to increase nucleating activity. However, phosphorylation of the Arp2 subunit was recently shown to be necessary for Arp2/3 complex activity. We show in mammary carcinoma cells that mutant Arp2 lacking phosphorylation assembled with endogenous subunits and dominantly suppressed actin filament assembly and membrane protrusion. We also report that Nck-interacting kinase (NIK), a MAP4K4, binds and directly phosphorylates the Arp2 subunit, which increases the nucleating activity of the Arp2/3 complex. In cells, NIK kinase activity was necessary for increased Arp2 phosphorylation and plasma membrane protrusion in response to epidermal growth factor. NIK is the first kinase shown to phosphorylate and increase the activity of the Arp2/3 complex, and our findings suggest that it integrates growth factor regulation of actin filament dynamics.
During vertebrate gastrulation, an epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) is necessary for migration of mesoderm from the primitive streak. We demonstrate that p38 MAP kinase and a p38-interacting protein (p38IP) are critically required for downregulation of E-cadherin during gastrulation. In an ENU-mutagenesis screen we identified the droopy eye (drey) mutation, which affects splicing of p38IP. p38IP(drey) mutant embryos display incompletely penetrant defects in neural tube closure, eye development, and gastrulation. A stronger allele (p38IP(RRK)) exhibits gastrulation defects in which mesoderm migration is defective due to deficiency in E-cadherin protein downregulation in the primitive streak. We show that p38IP binds directly to p38 and is required for p38 activation in vivo. Moreover, both p38 and p38IP are required for E-cadherin downregulation during gastrulation. Finally, p38 regulates E-cadherin protein expression downstream from NCK-interacting kinase (NIK) and independently of the regulation of transcription by Fibroblast Growth Factor (Fgf) signaling and Snail.
We have recently demonstrated that nuclear factor-inducing kinase (NIK) plays a crucial role in osteopontin (OPN)-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase/I kappa B alpha kinase-dependent nuclear factor kappa B (NF kappa B)-mediated promatrix metalloproteinase-9 activation (Rangaswami, H., Bulbule, A., and Kundu, G. C. (2004) J. Biol. Chem. 279, 38921-38935). However, the molecular mechanism(s) by which OPN regulates NIK/MEKK1-dependent activating protein-1 (AP-1)-mediated promatrix metalloproteinase-9 activation and whether JNK1 plays any role in regulating both these pathways that control the cell motility are not well defined. Here we report that OPN induces alpha v beta3 integrin-mediated MEKK1 phosphorylation and MEKK1-dependent JNK1 phosphorylation and activation. Overexpression of NIK enhances OPN-induced c-Jun expression, whereas overexpressed NIK had no role in OPN-induced JNK1 phosphorylation and activation. Sustained activation of JNK1 by overexpression of wild type but not kinase negative MEKK1 resulted in suppression of ERK1/2 activation. But this did not affect the OPN-induced NIK-dependent ERK1/2 activation. OPN stimulated both NIK and MEKK1-dependent c-Jun expression, leading to AP-1 activation, whereas NIK-dependent AP-1 activation is independent of JNK1. OPN also enhanced JNK1-dependent/independent AP-1-mediated urokinase type plasminogen activator (uPA) secretion, uPA-dependent promatrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) activation, cell motility, and invasion. OPN stimulates tumor growth, and the levels of c-Jun, AP-1, urokinase type plasminogen activator, and MMP-9 were higher in OPN-induced tumor compared with control. To our knowledge this is first report that OPN induces NIK/MEKK1-mediated JNK1-dependent/independent AP-1-mediated pro-MMP-9 activation and regulates the negative crosstalk between NIK/ERK1/2 and MEKK1/JNK1 pathways that ultimately controls the cell motility, invasiveness, and tumor growth.
Integrins are heterodimeric (alphabeta) transmembrane receptors for extracellular matrix (ECM) ligands. Through interactions with molecular partners at cell junctions, they provide a connection between the ECM and the cytoskeleton and regulate many aspects of cell behavior. A number of integrin-associated molecules have been identified; however, in many cases, their function and role in the animal remain to be clarified.
We have identified the Nck-interacting kinase (NIK), a member of the STE20/germinal center kinase (GCK) family, as a partner for the beta1A integrin cytoplasmic domain. We find that NIK is expressed in the nervous system and other tissues in mouse embryos and colocalizes with actin and beta1 integrin in cellular protrusions in transfected cells. To demonstrate the functional significance of this interaction, we used Caenorhabditis elegans, since it has only one beta (PAT-3) integrin chain, two alpha (INA-1 and PAT-2) integrin chains, and a well-conserved NIK ortholog (MIG-15). Using three methods, we show that reducing mig-15 activity results in premature branching of commissures. A significant aggravation of this defect is observed when mig-15 activity is compromised in a weak ina-1 background. Neuronal-specific RNA interference against mig-15 or pat-3 leads to similar axonal defects, thus showing that both mig-15 and pat-3 act cell autonomously in neurons. Finally, we show a genetic interaction between mig-15, ina-1, and genes that encode Rac GTPases.
Using several models, we provide the first evidence that the kinase NIK and integrins interact in vitro and in vivo. This interaction is required for proper axonal navigation in C. elegans.
We have previously shown that the Drosophila Ste20 kinase encoded by misshapen (msn) is an essential gene in Drosophila development. msn function is required to activate the Drosophila c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), basket (Bsk), to promote dorsal closure of the Drosophila embryo. Later in development, msn expression is required in photoreceptors in order for their axons to project normally. A mammalian homolog of msn, the NCK-interacting kinase (NIK) (recently renamed to mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4; Map4k4), has been shown to activate JNK and to bind the SH3 domains of the SH2/SH3 adapter NCK. To determine whether NIK also plays an essential role in mammalian development, we created mice deficient in NIK by homologous recombination at the Nik gene. Nik(-/-) mice die postgastrulation between embryonic day (E) 9.5 and E10.5. The most striking phenotype in Nik(-/-) embryos is the failure of mesodermal and endodermal cells that arise from the anterior end of the primitive streak (PS) to migrate to their correct location. As a result Nik(-/- )embryos fail to develop somites or a hindgut and are truncated posteriorly. Interestingly, chimeric analysis demonstrated that NIK has a cell nonautonomous function in stimulating migration of presomitic mesodermal cells away from the PS and a second cell autonomous function in stimulating the differentiation of presomitic mesoderm into dermomyotome. These findings indicate that despite the large number of Ste20 kinases in mammalian cells, members of this family play essential nonredundant function in regulating specific signaling pathways. In addition, these studies provide evidence that the signaling pathways regulated by these kinases are diverse and not limited to the activation of JNK because mesodermal and somite development are not perturbed in JNK1-, and JNK2-deficient mice.
Endotoxin tolerance protects the host by limiting excessive 'cytokine storm' during sepsis, but compromises the ability to counteract infections in septic shock survivors. It reprograms Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 responses by attenuating the expression of proinflammatory cytokines without suppressing anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial mediators, but the mechanisms of reprogramming remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that the induction of endotoxin tolerance in human monocytes, THP-1 and MonoMac-6 cells inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-mediated phosphorylation of Lyn, c-Src and their recruitment to TLR4, but increased total protein phosphatase (PP) activity and the expression of protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) 1B, PP2A, PTP nonreceptor type (PTPN) 22 and mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase (MKP)-1. Chemical PP inhibitors, okadaic acid, dephostatin and cantharidic acid markedly decreased or completely abolished LPS tolerance, indicating the importance of phosphatases in endotoxin tolerization. Overexpression of PTPN22 decreased LPS-mediated nuclear factor (NF)-x03BA;B activation, p38 phosphorylation and CXCL8 gene expression, while PTPN22 ablation upregulated LPS-induced p65 NF-x03BA;B and p38 phosphorylation and the expression of TNF-α and pro-IL-1β mRNA, indicating PTPN22 as an inhibitor of TLR4 signaling. Thus, LPS tolerance interferes with TLR4 signaling by inhibiting Lyn and c-Src phosphorylation and their recruitment to TLR4, while increasing the phosphatase activity and expression of PP2A, PTPN22, PTP1B and MKP1.
Appropriate hemostasis is essential for clear visualization of the neural structures and cleavage planes. It is also essential for avoiding heat-induced injury, minimizing blood loss, and reducing operative time.
To determine the role of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in platelet-dependent hemostasis during neurosurgery.
The amplification of aggregation, activation of integrin αIIbβ3, intrinsic and extrinsic coagulation pathways, and activation of signaling cascades in platelets were evaluated. For comparison, various concentrations of a commercially available artificial CSF solution (aCSF) (Artcereb), an artificial CSF solution prepared by the authors, and normal saline (NS) were used. Differences between aCSF and NS in obtaining in vivo hemostasis were assessed by measuring the tail vein bleeding time in C57BL/6N mice.
Platelet aggregation was directly amplified by the addition of aCSF through increased activation of integrin αIIbβ3, phosphatidylserine exposure, and P-selectin expression. However, the prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time were not primarily related to coagulation activity. Activation of Src kinase was related to platelet activation by aCSF. The elimination of sodium bicarbonate from aCSF and the addition of the selective inhibitor of the HCO3/Cl exchanger, 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid disodium salt, significantly inhibited platelet aggregation. The bleeding time in aCSF-treated mice was significantly shorter than that in NS-treated mice.
Sodium bicarbonate facilitates hemostasis through amplification of platelet aggregation function. The existence of CSF and irrigation with aCSF provides better conditions for physiological hemostasis and has the potential of improving hemostasis by bipolar coagulation or with irrigation during neuroendoscopic procedures.
ACD, acid citrate dextroseaCSF, artificial cerebrospinal fluid solutionADP, adenosine diphosphateAPTT, activated partial thromboplastin timeDIDS, 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid disodium saltFITC, fluorescein isothiocyanateGP, glycoproteinmAb, monoclonal antibodyHepes, 2-[4-(2-hydroxyethyl)piperazin-1-yl]ethanesulfonic acidLC, lower chamberMAPK, mitogen-activated protein kinaseNS, normal salinepAb, polyclonal antibodyPE, phycoerythrinPLCγII, phospholipase C gamma-2PRP, platelet-rich plasmaPS, phosphatidylserinePT, prothrombin timeRT, room temperatureSD, standard deviationSDS, sodium dodecyl sulfateTBS, Tris-buffered salineTXA2, thromboxane A2UC, upper chambervWF, von Willebrand factor.
We wished to study the impact of Chaihushugan San (CSS) on the behavior of perimenopausal rats with liver-Qi stagnation (LQS) and to investigate the effect of CSS on signal transduction of the Raf/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK)/ extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) cascade in the hippocampi of rats induced by immobilization.
Twenty 52-week-old female rats were divided into two groups by the random number table method: model control group (MCG) and CSS group (CSSG), with 10 rats in each group. Ten-week-old female rats were used as the normal control group (NCG). CSS effects were assessed using rats exposed to immobilization stress by measuring body weight and sucrose consumption, serum hormone levels, and observing performance in the open field test (OFT). Molecular mechanisms were examined by measuring the effect of CSS on expression of Raf1, MEK1/2 and ERK1/2 mRNA in hippocampi using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and by measuring levels of these proteins and related phospho-proteins using Western blotting.
Perimenopausal rats with LQS had decreased locomotor activity; reduced sucrose consumption; and increased serum levels of corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) and corticosterone (CORT). Activation of hippocampal Raf/MEK/ERK cascade was suppressed significantly in the MCG, and activation was increased after 21 days of CSS treatment.
CSS has significant effects upon relief of the symptoms of LQS in immobilization-induced rats. The mechanism underlying this action might (at least in part) be mediated by reversal of disruption of the Raf/MEK/ERK pathway.
Cumin seeds (Cuminum cyminum L.) have been commonly used in food flavoring and perfumery. In this study, cumin essential oil (CuEO) extracted from seeds was employed to investigate the anti-inflammatory effects in lipopolysaccharide- (LPS-) stimulated RAW 264.7 cells and the underlying mechanisms. A total of 26 volatile constituents were identified in CuEO by GC-MS, and the most abundant constituent was cuminaldehyde (48.773%). Mitochondrial-respiration-dependent 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium (MTT) reduction assay demonstrated that CuEO did not exhibit any cytotoxic effect at the employed concentrations (0.0005-0.01%). Real-time PCR tests showed that CuEO significantly inhibited the mRNA expressions of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase (COX-2), interleukin- (IL-) 1, and IL-6. Moreover, western blotting analysis revealed that CuEO blocked LPS-induced transcriptional activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and inhibited the phosphorylation of extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). These results suggested that CuEO exerted anti-inflammatory effects in LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells via inhibition of NF-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinases ERK and JNK signaling; the chemical could be used as a source of anti-inflammatory agents as well as dietary complement for health promotion.
To investigate the effects of different concentrations of norepinephrine (NE) on proliferation and apoptosis of cultured cardiac fibroblasts (CFBs) from neonatal mice and to elucidate related mechanisms.
CFBs of Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were isolated and cultured and divided into normal control group and different concentration of NE intervention groups (0.1, 1, 10, 50, and 100 µmol/L). Water soluble tetrazolium-1 (WST-1) assay was carried out to detect the viability of CFBs. Morphology of apoptosis cells was evaluated by fluorescence microscope with terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining. The expressions of collagen I, collagen III, pro-oncogene c-myc in CFBs were detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The phospho-mitogen activated protein kinase (p-p38MAPK) and caspase3 protein levels were examined by Western blot.
Proliferation was significantly increased in 1 µmol/L and 10 µmol/L groups compared with the normal control group (1.05 ± 0.05 and 1.09 ± 0.02 vs. 1.00 ± 0.03, all P < 0.05).CFBs apoptosis was significantly enhanced in 50 µmol/L and 100 µmol/L groups ((22.69 ± 2.18)% and (36.40 ± 6.80)% vs.(4.50 ± 1.08)%, all P < 0.05). Expression of Collagen I peaked in 10 µmol/L group, expression of collagen III and c-myc increased dose-dependently in proportion to increasing NE concentrations (all P < 0.05 vs. control group). The expression of p-p38MAPK and caspase3 was also significantly upregulated in a dose-dependent manner in NE groups (all P < 0.05 vs. control group).
Low concentration NE induces CFBs proliferation and high concentration NE promotes CFBs apoptosis. p38MAPK phosphorylation may be a major mediator of NE-induced effects on CFBs.
Cigarette smoking is one of the most important risk factors for the development of various diseases. Nicotine is the most extensively investigated component of cigarette smoke, and a comprehensive analysis of the genes induced by nicotine stimulation revealed that interleukin-8 (IL-8) was induced in oral squamous cell carcinoma cell (OSCC). Based on this background, the signaling mechanisms of nicotine-mediated IL-8 induction in OSCC was investigated. Augmented IL-8 secretion by Ca9-22 cells was blocked by the NF-κB inhibitor L-1-4'-tosylamino-phenylethyl-chloromethyl ketone (TPCK) and the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR)-specific inhibitor α-bungarotoxin (αBtx). The downstream signaling pathway was further examined by pre-incubating the cells with inhibitors against mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK), protein kinase C (PKC), and Ca(2+) /calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMK II). Only the CaMK II inhibitor was found to exert an inhibitory effect on nicotine-mediated IL-8 secretion. Pre-treatment of the Ca9-22 cells with the Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA-AM drastically inhibited IL-8 secretion. Although nicotine stimulation induced the phosphorylation of the NF-κB p65 subunit, pre-treatment with BAPTA-AM was found to inhibit this activity significantly. CaMK II-dependent p65 phosphorylation was confirmed by pre-incubation of the cells with CaMK II inhibitor. The results from this study indicate that the binding of nicotine to nAChR induces Ca(2+) influx, which results in the activation and phosphorylation of CaMK II and NF-κB p65, respectively. Nicotine-mediated IL-8 induction should be a trigger for the initiation of various diseases. J. Cell. Biochem. 9999: 1-7, 2015. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
G protein-coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER-1, formerly known as GPR30) has been proposed as the receptor for estrogen-induced, growth of leiomyomas though its precise mechanisms of action are not clear. We obtained leiomyoma cells (LC) and normal smooth muscle cells from 28 women (n = 28, median age 38 years, median parity 1.0). We incubated them with 17-β estradiol (E2), after blocking, or upregulating, expression of GPER-1 with ICI182,780 (a GPER-1 agonist) and siGPR30, respectively. We evaluated the role of GPER-1 in the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway using Western blot analysis. We studied cell proliferation with 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide, and, mitotic activity with phosphohistone H3 (PPH3) expression in leiomyoma, and, matched, normal, smooth muscle tissues using standard immunohistochemistry. Downregulation of GPER-1 expression with siGPR30 partially attenuated the E2-activated MAPK signaling pathway (p < 0.01). Upregulation of GPER-1 with ICI182,780 enhanced the E2-activated MAPK signaling pathway (p < 0.01). ICI182,780 enhanced E2-induced proliferation of LC (p < 0.01), while knock down of the GPER-1 gene with GPER-1 small interfering RNA partially inhibited E2-induced cell proliferation (p < 0.01). There were no significant differences in PPH3 expression between LCs and normal smooth muscle tissues (p > 0.05). Neither ICI182,780 nor siGPR30 increased mitosis in LCs (p > 0.05). Our results indicate that GPER-1 mediates proliferation of estrogen-induced, LC by activating the MAPK pathway, and, not by promoting mitosis.
Heart disease is the leading cause of human death in the 21st century. Heart transplantation is a promising way to treat this. Because donor resources are limited, cell-based therapy has been developed as an alternative. Therefore, genes that trigger cardiogenesis could have potential in the treatment of heart disease. Fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1) is reported to stimulate cardiomyocyte proliferation under conditions of myocardial infarction, but little is known about its function during cardiac differentiation. In this study, we established an in vitro cardiogenesis model through a reliable chemical induction protocol to determine whether FGF1 and its gene expression are involved in cardiogenesis. Oxytocin, not only a well-known hormone but also a cardiac differentiation inducer, was used in a mouse embryonic stem cell line, E14Tg2a, to achieve cardiac differentiation. After differentiation, beating cell clusters appeared and the expression of FGF1B mRNA was upregulated in the late differentiation stage (differentiation days 8-14). Interestingly, FGF1B expression patterns during cardiac differentiation were similar to those of a mature cardiomyocyte marker, troponin T2, cardiac. The blockage of FGF1-FGF receptor (FGFR) signaling reduced not only the appearance of beating cluster formation but also the expression levels of cardiomyocyte-associated genes. Moreover, by investigating FGF1 downstream signaling cascades, we observed that the efficiency of beating cluster formation was mainly regulated through the FGF1-FGFR-PKC signaling axis. Taken together, we provide evidence to support that FGF1 could regulate cardiogenesis primarily through the protein kinase C signaling, but not through the mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling, pathway.
Dickkopf-1 (DKK-1) is an inhibitor of canonical Wnt signalling and has been associated with the progression of osteolytic bone metastases by impairing osteoblast activity. In addition, there is growing evidence supporting a direct anti-tumour effect of DKK-1. The p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) regulates intracellular responses that have been linked to cell cycle, apoptosis and tumorigenesis. P38 inhibitors are currently under clinical evaluation for the treatment of malignancies. However, the influence of p38 on DKK-1 in breast cancer remains elusive. In this work, we show that p38 inhibition using SB202190 or LY2228820 potently suppressed DKK-1 expression by MDA-231 and MCF-7 breast cancer cell lines as well melanoma derived MDA-435 cells. Vice versa, activation of p38 signalling by anisomycin induced DKK-1 expression. Immunohistochemical analysis of DKK-1 expression in 97 breast cancer samples revealed that high expression of p38 was associated with a higher expression of DKK-1 compared to tumours with low p38 expression. In conclusion, these results support a role of p38 in the regulation of DKK-1 in osteolytic tumours and warrant further research on the potential of p38 inhibition for the treatment of malignant bone disease.
The aim of this study was to determine the role of ALDH2 in the injury of liver from brain-dead donors. Using brain-dead rabbit model and hypoxia model, levels of ALDH2 and apoptosis in tissues and cell lines were determined by Western blot, flow cytometry (FCM), and transferase (TdT)-mediated biotin-16-dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assays. After the expression of ALDH2 during hypoxia had been inhibited or activated, the accumulations of 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) and molecules involved in mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway were analyzed using ELISA kit and Western blot. The low expression of phosphorylated ALDH2 in liver was time-dependent in the brain-dead rabbit model. Immunohistochemistry showed ALDH2 was primarily located in endothelial, and the rates of cell apoptosis in the donation after brain-death (DBD) rabbit groups significantly increased with time. Following the treatment of inhibitor of ALDH2, daidzein, in combination with hypoxia for 8 h, the apoptosis rate and the levels of 4-HNE, P-JNK, and cleaved caspase-3 significantly increased in contrast to that in hypoxic HUVECs; however, they all decreased after treatment with Alda-1 and hypoxia compared with that in hypoxic HUVECs (P < 0.05). Instead, the levels of P-P38, P-ERK, P-JNK, and cleaved caspase-3 decreased and the ratio of bcl-2/bax increased with ad-ALDH2 (10(6) pfu/ml) in combination with hypoxia for 8 h, which significantly alleviated in contrast to that in hypoxic HUVECs. We found low expression of ALDH2 and high rates of apoptosis in the livers of brain-dead donor rabbits. Furthermore, decreased ALDH2 led to apoptosis in HUVECs through MAPK pathway.
P38 mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) α modulates microglia-mediated inflammatory responses and a number of neuronal physiological processes.
To evaluate pre-clinically the pharmacological effects in the brain of p38 MAPKα inhibition with a brain-penetrant specific chemical antagonist.
VX-745, a blood-brain barrier penetrant, highly selective p38 MAPKα inhibitor, and clinical stage investigational drug, was utilized. Initially, a pilot study in 26-month-old Tg2576 mice was conducted. Subsequently, a definitive dose-response study was conducted in aged (20-22 months) rats with identified cognitive deficits; n = 15 per group: vehicle, 0.5, 1.5, and 4.5 mg/kg VX-745 by oral gavage twice daily for 3 weeks. Assessments in aged rats included IL-1β, PSD-95, TNFα protein levels in hippocampus; and Morris water maze (MWM) test for cognitive performance.
Drug effect could not be assessed in Tg2576 mice, as little inflammation was evident. In cognitively-impaired aged rats, VX-745 led to significantly improved performance in the MWM and significant reduction in hippocampal IL-1β protein levels, though the effects were dissociated as the MWM effect was evident at a lower dose level than that required to lower IL-1β. Drug concentration-effect relationships and predicted human doses were determined.
Selective inhibition of p38 MAPKα with VX-745 in aged rats reduces hippocampal IL-1β levels and improves performance in the MWM. As the two effects occur at different dose levels, the behavioral effect appears to be via a mechanism that is independent of reducing cytokine production. The predicted human doses should minimize risks of systemic toxicity.
To investigate whether low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (US) has different protective effects on early and late rabbit osteoarthritis cartilage via the integrin/focal adhesion kinase (FAK)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway.
Thirty-six New Zealand White rabbits were divided into early control, early osteoarthritis, early treatment, late control, late osteoarthritis, and late treatment groups. The early and late osteoarthritis and treatment groups underwent anterior cruciate ligament transection. The remaining groups underwent sham operations with knee joint exposure. The early and late treatment groups were exposed to low-intensity pulsed US 4 and 8 weeks after surgery. After 6 weeks of US exposure, pathologic changes on the articular surface of the femoral condyle were assessed by modified Mankin scores. Expression of type II collagen, matrix metalloproteinase, integrin β1, phosphorylated FAK, and MAPKs (including extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2, MAPK 38, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase) was assessed by Western blot analysis.
Cartilage damage was less severe in the early treatment group than the early osteoarthritis group. The Mankin score was significantly lower in the early treatment group than the early osteoarthritis group (P < .05). There was no significant difference in cartilage damage or Mankin score between the late treatment and late osteoarthritis groups. There was a significant increase in type II collagen expression but a significant decrease in matrix metalloproteinase 13 expression in the early treatment group compared to the early osteoarthritis group, whereas no significant difference was found between the late treatment and late osteoarthritis groups. Integrin β1 and phosphorylated FAK expression was significantly higher, and phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and phosphorylated MAPK 38 expression was significantly lower in the early treatment group than the early osteoarthritis group.
Our findings indicate that low-intensity pulsed US protects cartilage from damage in early-stage osteoarthritis via the integrin/FAK/MAPK pathway.
The pathogenesis of endometriosis, a common benign disease, remains ill-defined, although it is clear that chronic inflammation plays a crucial role through mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways. All current medical therapies for endometriosis are antigonadotropic, and therefore have a contraceptive effect. A concerted research effort is hence warranted with the aim of delivering novel therapeutics that reduces disease symptoms without blocking ovulation. Areas covered: The authors review the complex pathogenic mechanisms of chronic inflammation in endometriosis and their relationships with MAPK pathways. The authors conducted a literature search of descriptive and functional targeted validation of MAPK in the pathogenesis of endometriosis. The effects of MAPK inhibitors, which constitute potential agents for future treatments, are also described. Expert opinion: Preliminary studies have highlighted a crucial role for MAPK in driving endometriosis-related inflammation. MAPK inhibitors exhibit potent activity in terms of controlling growth of endometriosis lesions both in vitro and in animal models. As MAPK inhibitors are known to have a multitude of undesirable side effects, their use in humans has to be approached with great care. Indeed, use of these drugs would probably be limited to short exposures prior to surgery in cases involving the most severe disease phenotypes.
Heterotrimeric G-protein signaling has been shown to modulate a wide variety of intracellular signaling pathways, including the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family. The activity of one MAPK family class, c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs), has been traditionally linked to the activation of G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) at the plasma membrane. Using a unique set of G-protein signaling tools developed in our laboratory, we show that subcellular domain-specific JNK activity is inhibited by the activation of Gαi3, the Gαi isoform found predominantly within intracellular membranes, such as the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi interface, and their associated vesicle pools. Regulators of intracellular Gαi3, including activator of G-protein signaling 3 (AGS3) and the regulator of G-protein signaling protein 4 (RGS4), have a marked impact on the regulation of JNK activity. Together, these data support the existence of unique intracellular signaling complexes that control JNK activity deep within the cell. This work highlights some of the cellular pathways that are regulated by these intracellular complexes and identifies potential strategies for their regulation in mammalian cells.
Hydrocortisone is a growth hormone frequently used in the treatment of low back pain. Hydrocortisone treatment has an anti-inflammation effect, which also inactivates glucose transporter type 4 (GLUT4) by p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibition. Translocation of GLUT4 regulates body glucose homeostasis and muscle repair and is induced by insulin. In this study, 56 SD rats were divided into seven groups, and were treated with insulin or hydrocortisone in sedentary or exercise training groups. The muscle proteins and biochemical blood parameters were analyzed after 7 days of treatments. The results showed that the serum glucose increased in hydrocortisone treatment accompanied by GLUT4 inactivation in both the sedentary and exercise training rats. In the exercise training groups, GLUT4 was redistributed on the plasma membrane on co-treatment with insulin and hydrocortisone through Akt phosphorylation. Insulin treatment exerted a compensatory feedback effect on the GLUT4 translocation on hydrocortisone cotreatment, which was the cause of GLUT4 inactivation.
Previously, we reported that nicotine withdrawal (NT) significantly increased pain sensitivity in rats. Recent reports suggest that fractalkine is involved in the spinal cord neuron-to-microglia activation via CX3CR1 signaling. However, its contribution to NT-induced hyperalgesia and the underlying mechanisms have yet to be elucidated. In the present study, a rat model of NT was used to test the changes in CX3CR1 expression in the spinal cord. We also evaluated the effect of the CX3CR1 neutralizing antibody on spinal microglial activity, the expression of phosphorylated p38-mitogen-activated protein kinase (p-p38-MAPK) and heat-induced pain responses. We established a NT model via subcutaneous injection of pure nicotine (3 mg/kg), three times daily for 7 days. The expression of CX3CR1 was studied by Western blot and immunofluorescence staining. Following NT, the rats received daily intrathecal injections of CX3CR1 neutralizing antibody for 3 days. The change in paw withdrawal latency (PWL) was observed. The activation of microglia and the expression of p-p38-MAPK were investigated by Western blot and immunofluorescence staining. The expression of CX3CR1 was significantly increased after NT and co-localized with IBA-1. NT rats treated with CX3CR1 neutralizing antibody showed significantly increased PWL on day 4 after NT. Furthermore, the activation of microglia and the expression of p-p38-MAPK in the spinal cord were suppressed. These results indicate that microglial CX3CR1/p38MAPK pathway is critical for the development of pain hypersensitivity after NT.
We tested the hypothesis that ingestion of sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3) prior to an acute session of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) would augment signalling cascades and gene expression linked to mitochondrial biogenesis in human skeletal muscle. On two occasions separated by ~1 wk, nine men (22±2 y; 78±13 kg, VO2peak = 48±8 mL kg(-1) min(-1); mean ± SD) performed 10x60-s cycling efforts at an intensity eliciting ~90% of maximal heart rate (263±40 W), interspersed with 60 s of recovery. In a double-blind, crossover manner, subjects ingested a total of 0.4 g kg b.w.(-1) NaHCO3 prior to exercise (BICARB) or an equimolar amount of the placebo, sodium chloride (PLAC). Venous blood bicarbonate and pH were elevated at all time points post-ingestion (p<0.05) in BICARB vs. PLAC. During exercise, muscle glycogen utilization (126±47 vs. 53±38 mmol kg d.w.(-1); p < 0.05) and blood lactate accumulation (12.8±2.6 vs. 10.5±2.8 mmol L(-1); p < 0.05) were greater in BICARB vs. PLAC. The acute exercise-induced increase in the phosphorylation of acetyl-CoA carboxylase, a downstream marker of AMP-activated protein kinase activity, and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase were similar between treatments (p>0.05). However, the increase in PGC-1α mRNA expression after 3 h of recovery was higher in BICARB vs. PLAC (~7- vs. 5-fold compared to rest, p<0.05). We conclude that NaHCO3 prior to HIIT alters the mRNA expression of this key regulatory protein associated with mitochondrial biogenesis. The elevated PGC-1α mRNA response provides a putative mechanism to explain the enhanced mitochondrial adaptation seen after chronic NaHCO3-supplemented HIIT in rats.
Activation of adenosine monophosphate-activated kinase (AMPK) has been associated with the inhibition of inflammatory nociception and the attenuation of morphine antinociceptive tolerance. In this study, the authors investigated the impact of AMPK activation through resveratrol treatment on bone cancer pain.
The nociception was assessed by measuring the incidence of foot withdrawal in response to mechanical indentation in rats (n = 8). Cytokine expression was measured using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (n = 8). Cell signalings were assayed by western blot (n = 4) and immunohistochemistry (n = 5). The microglial cell line BV-2, primary astrocytes, and neuron-like SH-SY5Y cells were cultured to investigate the in vitro effects.
Resveratrol and 5-amino-1-β-D-ribofuranosyl-imidazole-4-carboxamide, the AMPK activators, significantly attenuated bone cancer pain in rats with tumor cell implantation (TCI; threshold of mechanical withdrawal, resveratrol vs. vehicle: 10.1 ± 0.56 vs. 4.1 ± 0.37; 5-amino-1-β-D-ribofuranosyl-imidazole-4-carboxamide vs. vehicle: 8.2 ± 0.17 vs. 4.1 ± 0.37, mean ± SEM); these effects were reversed by the AMPK inhibitor compound C (compound C vs. resveratrol: 6.2 ± 1.35 vs. 10.1 ± 0.56, mean ± SEM). Resveratrol has an AMPK-dependent inhibitory effect on TCI-evoked astrocyte and microglial activation. The antinociceptive effects of resveratrol were partially mediated by the reduced phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases and decreased production of proinflammatory cytokines in an AMPK-dependent manner. Furthermore, resveratrol potently inhibited inflammatory factors-mediated protein kinase B/mammalian target of rapamycin signaling in neurons. Acute pain evoked by proinflammatory cytokines in the spinal cord was significantly attenuated by resveratrol.
AMPK activation in the spinal glia by resveratrol may have utility in the treatment of TCI-induced neuroinflammation, and our results further implicate AMPK as a novel target for the attenuation of bone cancer pain.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an aggressive disease with a survival rate of 4-6 months from diagnosis. PDAC is the fourth leading cause of cancer-related death in the Western world, with a mortality rate of 10 cases per 100,000 population. Chemotherapy constitutes only a palliative strategy, with limited effects on life expectancy.
To investigate the biological response of PDAC to mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and NF-kappaB (NF-kB) inhibitors and the role of autophagy in the modulation of these signaling pathways in order to address the challenge of developing improved medical protocols for patients with PDAC.
Two ATCC cell lines, MIAPaCa-2 and PANC-1, were used as PDAC models. Cells were exposed to inhibitors of MAPK or NF-kB survival pathways alone or after autophagy inhibition. Several aspects were analyzed, as follows: cell proliferation, by [(3)H]TdR incorporation; cell death, by TUNEL assay, regulation of autophagy by LC3-II expression level and modulation of pro-and anti-apoptotic proteins by Western blot.
We demonstrated that the inhibition of the MAPK and NF-kB survival pathways with U0126 and caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE), respectively, produced strong inhibition of pancreatic tumor cell growth without inducing apoptotic death. Interestingly, U0126 and CAPE induced apoptosis after autophagy inhibition in a caspase-dependent manner in MIA PaCa-2 cells and in a caspase-independent manner in PANC-1 cells.
Here we present evidence that allows us to consider a combined therapy regimen comprising an autophagy inhibitor and a MAPK or NF-kB pathway inhibitor as a possible treatment strategy for pancreatic cancer.
The Hippo pathway plays a central role in tissue homoeostasis, and its dysregulation contributes to tumorigenesis. Core components of the Hippo pathway include a kinase cascade of MST1/2 and LATS1/2 and the transcription co-activators YAP/TAZ. In response to stimulation, LATS1/2 phosphorylate and inhibit YAP/TAZ, the main effectors of the Hippo pathway. Accumulating evidence suggests that MST1/2 are not required for the regulation of YAP/TAZ. Here we show that deletion of LATS1/2 but not MST1/2 abolishes YAP/TAZ phosphorylation. We have identified MAP4K family members-Drosophila Happyhour homologues MAP4K1/2/3 and Misshapen homologues MAP4K4/6/7-as direct LATS1/2-activating kinases. Combined deletion of MAP4Ks and MST1/2, but neither alone, suppresses phosphorylation of LATS1/2 and YAP/TAZ in response to a wide range of signals. Our results demonstrate that MAP4Ks act in parallel to and are partially redundant with MST1/2 in the regulation of LATS1/2 and YAP/TAZ, and establish MAP4Ks as components of the expanded Hippo pathway.
Protein kinases are potential therapeutic targets for heart failure, but most studies of cardiac protein kinases derive from other systems, an approach that fails to account for specific kinases expressed in the heart and the contractile cardiomyocytes. We aimed to define the cardiomyocyte kinome (i.e. the protein kinases expressed in cardiomyocytes) and identify kinases with altered expression in human failing hearts.
Expression profiling (Affymetrix microarrays) detected >400 protein kinase mRNAs in rat neonatal ventricular myocytes (NVMs) and/or adult ventricular myocytes (AVMs), 32 and 93 of which were significantly up-regulated or down-regulated (greater than two-fold), respectively, in AVMs. Data for AGC family members were validated by qPCR. Proteomics analysis identified >180 cardiomyocyte protein kinases, with high relative expression of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades and other known cardiomyocyte kinases (e.g. CAMKs, cAMP-dependent protein kinase). Other kinases are poorly investigated (e.g. Slk, Stk24, Oxsr1). Expression of Akt1/2/3, BRaf, ERK1/2, Map2k1, Map3k8, Map4k4, MST1/3, p38-MAPK, PKCδ, Pkn2, Ripk1/2, Tnni3k, and Zak was confirmed by immunoblotting. Relative to total protein, Map3k8 and Tnni3k were up-regulated in AVMs vs. NVMs. Microarray data for human hearts demonstrated variation in kinome expression that may influence responses to kinase inhibitor therapies. Furthermore, some kinases were up-regulated (e.g. NRK, JAK2, STK38L) or down-regulated (e.g. MAP2K1, IRAK1, STK40) in human failing hearts.
This characterization of the spectrum of kinases expressed in cardiomyocytes and the heart (cardiomyocyte and cardiac kinomes) identified novel kinases, some of which are differentially expressed in failing human hearts and could serve as potential therapeutic targets.
Kaposi's sarcoma (KS)-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is the etiologic agent of KS, the most common AIDS-related malignancy. The majority of KS tumor cells harbor latent KSHV virus but only a small percentage undergoes spontaneous lytic replication. Viral reactivation from latency is crucial for the pathogenesis and development of KS, but the cellular mechanisms underlying the switch between viral latency and replication are not well understood.
The level of let-7 miRNAs and MAP4K4 in KSHV infected 293T cells were quantified by real-time PCRs. Let-7 expression was silenced by the miRNA sponge technique. In let-7a transfected 293T cells, the expression of MAP4K4 was measured by real-time PCR and western blot. Luciferease expression was employed to examine the effect of let-7a on the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of the MAP4K4 gene in 293T cells. Real-time PCR was used to quantify the KSHV copy numbers in BC-3 cells in which the expression of let-7a and/or MAP4K4 were altered. Finally, ERK, JNK and p38 protein production and their phosphorylation status were detected by western blots in let-7a or MAP4K4 transfected BCBL-1 cells.
The expression of microRNA let-7 was dramatically decreased in KSHV infected 293T cells, but that of MAP4K4 was increased significantly. Let-7a is physically associated with and targets the MAP4K4 3'UTR, and inhibits MAP4K4 expression at both mRNA and protein levels. MAP4K4 stimulates KSHV reactivation from latency, whereas let-7a inhibits the function of MAP4K4 by reversing the function of MAP4K4 on JNK, phospho-JNK and phospho-ERK1/2 levels.
Our results establish that let-7a specifically suppresses MAP4K4 expression, and further inhibits KSHV reactivation by interfering with the function of MAP4K4 on the MAPK pathway, highlighting let-7a as a potential treatment for KS.
SRY (sex determining region Y)-box 2 (SOX2) plays an important role in tumor cell metastasis and apoptosis. Laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC), responsible for 1.5% of all cancers, is one of the most common head and neck malignancies. Accumulating evidence shows that SOX2 is overexpressed in several human tumors, including lung cancer, esophageal carcinoma, pancreatic carcinoma, breast cancer, ovarian carcinoma and glioma. Our study aimed to investigate the silencing effects of SOX2 expression using RNA interference (RNAi) on various biological processes in laryngeal cancer TU212 cells, including proliferation, apoptosis, invasion and metastasis. We also studied the involvement of the MAPK/JNK signaling pathway in the biological effects of SOX2 siRNA in TU212 cells. We found that silencing SOX2 decreased the proliferation, migration, and invasion of TU212 cells, and induced apoptosis. This effect of silencing SOX2 could be reversed by silencing MAP4K4. Therefore, we consider SOX2 as a key regulator of the upstream MAP4K4/JNK signaling pathways that could be a potential therapeutic target in the treatment of patients with or prevention of laryngeal cancer.
This study reports on genetic susceptibility to ectopic calcification in the LG/J and SM/J advanced intercross mice. Using 347 mice in 98 full-sibships, destabilization of medial meniscus (DMM) was performed to induce joint injury. We found that joint destabilization instigated ectopic calcifications as detected and quantified by micro-CT. We performed quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis to map ectopic calcification phenotypes to discrete genomic locations. To validate the functional significance of the selected QTL candidate genes, we compared mRNA expression between parental LG/J and SM/J inbred strains. Overall, we detected 20 QTLs affecting synovial and meniscus calcification phenotypes with 11 QTLs linked to synovial calcification. Functional and bioinformatic analyses of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) identified functional classifications relevant to angiogenesis (Myo1e, Kif26b, Nprl3, Stab2, Fam105b), bone metabolism/calcification (Tle3, Tgfb2, Lipc, Nfe2l1, Ank, Fam105b), arthritis (Stab2, Tbx21, Map4k4, Hoxb9, Larp6, Col1a2, Adam10, Timp3, Nfe2l1, Trpm3), and ankylosing-spondylitis (Ank, Pon1, Il1r2, Tbkbp1) indicating that ectopic calcification involves multiple mechanisms. Furthermore, the expression of 11 out of 78 candidate genes was significantly different between LG/J and SM/J. Correlation analysis showed that Aff3, Fam81a, Syn3, and Ank were correlated with synovial calcification. Taken together, our findings of multiple genetic loci suggest the involvement of multiple genes contributing to ectopic calcification. © 2015 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 33:1412-1423, 2015.
Progressive loss and impaired restoration of neuronal activity are hallmarks of neurological diseases, and new small molecules with neurotrophic activity are in high demand. The militarinone alkaloids and structurally simplified analogues with 4-hydroxy-2-pyridone core structure induce pronounced neurite outgrowth, but their protein target has not been identified. Reported herein is the synthesis of a militarinone-inspired 4-hydroxy-2-pyridone collection, its investigation for enhancement of neurite outgrowth, and the discovery of the stress pathway kinase MAP4K4 as a target of the discovered neuritogenic pyridones. The most potent 4-hydroxy-2-pyridone is a selective ATP-competitive inhibitor of MAP4K4 but not of the other stress pathway related kinases, as proven by biochemical analysis and by a crystal structure of the inhibitor in complex with MAP4K4. The findings support the notion that MAP4K4 may be a new target for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
After performing a fragment based screen the resulting hits need to be prioritized for follow-up structure elucidation and chemistry. This paper describes a new similarity metric, Atom-Atom-Path (AAP) similarity that is used in conjunction with the Directed Sphere Exclusion (DISE) clustering method to effectively organize and prioritize the fragment hits. The AAP similarity rewards common substructures and recognizes minimal structure differences. The DISE method is order-dependent and can be used to enrich fragments with properties of interest in the first clusters.
The merit of the software is demonstrated by its application to the MAP4K4 fragment screening hits using ligand efficiency (LE) as quality measure. The first clusters contain the hits with the highest LE. The clustering results can be easily visualized in a LE-over-clusters scatterplot with points colored by the members' similarity to the corresponding cluster seed. The scatterplot enables the extraction of preliminary SAR.
The detailed structure differentiation of the AAP similarity metric is ideal for fragment-sized molecules. The order-dependent nature of the DISE clustering method results in clusters ordered by a property of interest to the teams. The combination of both allows for efficient prioritization of fragment hit for follow-ups. Graphical abstractAAP similarity computation and DISE clustering visualization.
The objective of this study was to investigate the expression of Toll-like receptors (TLR) and TLR-associated signalling pathway genes in oral lichen planus (OLP).
Initially, immunohistochemistry was used to determine TLR expression in 12 formalin-fixed archival OLP tissues with 12 non-specifically inflamed oral tissues as controls. RNA was isolated from further fresh samples of OLP and non-specifically inflamed oral tissue controls (n = 6 for both groups) and used in qRT(2) -PCR focused arrays to determine the expression of TLRs and associated signalling pathway genes. Genes with a statistical significance of ±two-fold regulation (FR) and a P-value < 0.05 were considered as significantly regulated.
Significantly more TLR4(+) cells were present in the inflammatory infiltrate in OLP compared with the control tissues (P < 0.05). There was no statistically significant difference in the numbers of TLR2(+) and TLR8(+) cells between the groups. TLR3 was significantly downregulated in OLP (P < 0.01). TLR8 was upregulated in OLP, but the difference between the groups was not statistically significant. The TLR-mediated signalling-associated protein genes MyD88 and TIRAP were significantly downregulated (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05), as were IRAK1 (P < 0.05), MAPK8 (P < 0.01), MAP3K1 (P < 0.05), MAP4K4 (P < 0.05), REL (P < 0.01) and RELA (P < 0.01). Stress proteins HMGB1 and the heat shock protein D1 were significantly downregulated in OLP (P < 0.01).
These findings suggest a downregulation of TLR-mediated signalling pathways in OLP lesions.
Cell migration is a stepwise process that coordinates multiple molecular machineries. Using in vitro angiogenesis screens with short interfering RNA and chemical inhibitors, we define here a MAP4K4-moesin-talin-β1-integrin molecular pathway that promotes efficient plasma membrane retraction during endothelial cell migration. Loss of MAP4K4 decreased membrane dynamics, slowed endothelial cell migration, and impaired angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo. In migrating endothelial cells, MAP4K4 phosphorylates moesin in retracting membranes at sites of focal adhesion disassembly. Epistasis analyses indicated that moesin functions downstream of MAP4K4 to inactivate integrin by competing with talin for binding to β1-integrin intracellular domain. Consequently, loss of moesin (encoded by the MSN gene) or MAP4K4 reduced adhesion disassembly rate in endothelial cells. Additionally, α5β1-integrin blockade reversed the membrane retraction defects associated with loss of Map4k4 in vitro and in vivo. Our study uncovers a novel aspect of endothelial cell migration. Finally, loss of MAP4K4 function suppressed pathological angiogenesis in disease models, identifying MAP4K4 as a potential therapeutic target.
Medulloblastoma (MB) comprises four molecularly and genetically distinct subgroups of embryonal brain tumors that develop in the cerebellum. MB mostly affects infants and children and is difficult to treat because of frequent dissemination of tumor cells within the leptomeningeal space. A potential promoter of cell dissemination is the c-Met proto-oncogene receptor tyrosine kinase, which is aberrantly expressed in many human tumors including MB. Database analysis showed that c-Met is highly expressed in the sonic hedgehog (SHH) subgroup and in a small subset of Group 3 and Group 4 MB tumors. Using a cell-based three-dimensional cell motility assay combined with live-cell imaging, we investigated whether the c-Met ligand HGF could drive dissemination of MB cells expressing high levels of c-Met, and determined downstream effector mechanisms of this process. We detected variable c-Met expression in different established human MB cell lines, and we found that in lines expressing high c-Met levels, HGF promoted cell dissemination and invasiveness. Specifically, HGF-induced c-Met activation enhanced the capability of the individual cells to migrate in a JNK-dependent manner. Additionally, we identified the Ser/Thr kinase MAP4K4 as a novel driver of c-Met-induced invasive cell dissemination. This increased invasive motility was due to MAP4K4 control of F-actin dynamics in structures required for migration and invasion. Thus, MAP4K4 couples growth factor signaling to actin cytoskeleton regulation in tumor cells, suggesting that MAP4K4 could present a promising novel target to be evaluated for treating growth factor-induced dissemination of MB tumors of different subgroups and of other human cancers.
Tumor growth cascade is a complicated and multistep process with numerous obstacles. Until recently, evidences have shown the involvement of microRNAs (miRNAs) in tumorigenesis and tumor progression of various cancers, including colorectal cancer (CRC). In this study, we explored the role of miR-194 and its downstream pathway in CRC. We acquired data through miRNA microarray profiles, showing that the expression of miR-194 was significantly suppressed in CRC tissues compared with corresponding noncancerous tissues. Decreased miR-194 expression was obviously associated with tumor size and tumor differentiation, as well as TNM stage. Both Kaplan-Meier and multivariate survival analysis showed that downregulated miR-194 was associated with overall survival. Moreover, functional assays indicated that overexpression of miR-194 in CRC cell lines inhibited cell proliferation both in vitro and in vivo. In addition, using dual-luciferase reporter gene assay, we found MAP4K4 was the direct target of miR-194. Silencing of MAP4K4 resulted in similar biological behavior changes to that of overexpression of miR-194. We also observed through Human Gene Expression Array that MDM2 was one of the downstream targets of MAP4K4. Knockdown of MAP4K4 downregulated MDM2 expression through transcription factor c-Jun binding to the -1063 to -1057 bp of the promoter. These results suggest that miR-194, regulating the MAP4K4/c-Jun/MDM2 signaling pathway, might act as a tumor suppressor and serve as a novel target for CRC prevention and therapy.
Similar to the mammalian intestine, the Drosophila adult midgut has resident stem cells that support growth and regeneration. How the niche regulates intestinal stem cell activity in both mammals and flies is not well understood. Here, we show that the conserved germinal center protein kinase Misshapen restricts intestinal stem cell division by repressing the expression of the JAK-STAT pathway ligand Upd3 in differentiating enteroblasts. Misshapen, a distant relative to the prototypic Warts activating kinase Hippo, interacts with and activates Warts to negatively regulate the activity of Yorkie and the expression of Upd3. The mammalian Misshapen homolog MAP4K4 similarly interacts with LATS (Warts homolog) and promotes inhibition of YAP (Yorkie homolog). Together, this work reveals that the Misshapen-Warts-Yorkie pathway acts in enteroblasts to control niche signaling to intestinal stem cells. These findings also provide a model in which to study requirements for MAP4K4-related kinases in MST1/2-independent regulation of LATS and YAP.
The striatin family of proteins, comprising STRN, STRN3 and STRN4, are multidomain-containing proteins that associate with additional proteins to form a large protein complex. We previously reported that STRN4 directly associated with protein kinases, such as MINK1, TNIK and MAP4K4, which are associated with tumor suppression or tumor progression. However, it remains unclear whether STRN4 is associated with tumor progression. In this report, we examined the role that STRN4 plays in cancer malignancy. We show that depletion of STRN4 suppresses proliferation, migration, invasion and the anchorage-independent growth of cancer cells. In addition, STRN4 knockdown increases the sensitivity of pancreatic cancer cells to gemcitabine. Finally, we show that STRN4 knockdown suppresses the proliferation and metastasis of cancer cells in mice. Our results demonstrate a possible role of STRN4 in tumor progression.
Fibroblast activation and proliferation are important for fibroblast-myofibroblast transdifferentiation, a crucial process in the pathological changes that define renal interstitial fibrosis. The left-right determination factor (Lefty) is an important cytokine of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-β family, with two variants, Lefty-1 and Lefty-2, in mice. Lefty has diverse functions, such as the regulation of embryonic development, the inhibition of TGF-β1 signaling, and the suppression of tumor activity. However, whether Lefty-1 influences fibroblast activation and proliferation, and consequently prevents fibroblast-myofibroblast transdifferentiation, remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether Lefty-1 can attenuate TGF-β1-induced fibroblast-myofibroblast transdifferentiation in normal rat kidney interstitial fibroblast cells (NRK-49F), as well as the mechanisms underlying any effects. Results showed that the typical fibroblast cell morphology of NRK-49F cells was altered after TGF-β1 treatment and that Lefty-1 significantly prevented this change in a dose-dependent manner. Further analyses demonstrated decreased proliferating cell nuclear antigen, cyclin D1, collagen I(A1), alpha-smooth muscle actin, and fibronectin expression. Lefty-1 further induced remarkable reductions in TGF-β1-induced Smad3 and mitogen-activated protein kinase-10/c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK-3) signaling, and enhanced expression of the antifibrotic factor bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-5. However, without TGF-β1, Lefty-1 had no effect on Smad3, JNK-3, and BMP-5 activation and fibroblast-myofibroblast transdifferentiation. Taken together, these findings indicate that Lefty-1 can alleviate TGF-β1-mediated activation and the proliferation of fibroblasts. Furthermore, Lefty-1 may prevent fibroblast-myofibroblast transdifferentiation in part via modulations of Smad3, JNK-3, and BMP-5 activities in the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway.
Leishmania major is a parasite that resides and replicates in macrophages. We previously showed that the parasite enhanced CD40-induced Raf-MEK-ERK signaling but inhibited PI3K-MKK-p38MAPK signaling to proleishmanial effects. As Raf and PI3K have a Ras-binding domain but exert opposite effects on Leishmania infection, we examined whether Ras isoforms had differential roles in Leishmania infection. We observed that L. major enhanced N-Ras and H-Ras expression but inhibited K-Ras expression in macrophages. L. major infection enhanced N-Ras activity but inhibited H-Ras and K-Ras activity. TLR2 short hairpin RNA or anti-TLR2 or anti-lipophosphoglycan Abs reversed the L. major-altered N-Ras and K-Ras expressions. Pam3CSK4, a TLR2 ligand, enhanced N-Ras expression but reduced K-Ras expression, indicating TLR2-regulated Ras expression in L. major infection. Whereas N-Ras silencing reduced L. major infection, K-Ras and H-Ras silencing enhanced the infection both in macrophages in vitro and in C57BL/6 mice. BALB/c-derived macrophages transduced with lentivirally expressed N-Ras short hairpin RNA and pulsed with L. major-expressed MAPK10 enhanced MAPK10-specific Th1-type response. CD40-deficient mice primed with these macrophages had reduced L. major infection, accompanied by higher IFN-γ but less IL-4 production. As N-Ras is activated by Sos, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor, we modeled the N-Ras-Sos interaction and designed two peptides from their interface. Both the cell-permeable peptides reduced L. major infection in BALB/c mice but not in CD40-deficient mice. These data reveal the L. major-enhanced CD40-induced N-Ras activation as a novel immune evasion strategy and the potential for Ras isoform-targeted antileishmanial immunotherapy and immunoprophylaxis.
Through medicinal chemistry lead optimization studies focused on calculated properties and guided by X-ray crystallography and computational modeling, potent pan-JNK inhibitors were identified that showed submicromolar activity in a cellular assay. Using in vitro ADME profiling data, 9t was identified as possessing favorable permeability and a low potential for efflux, but it was rapidly cleared in liver microsomal incubations. In a mouse pharmacokinetics study, compound 9t was brain-penetrant after oral dosing, but exposure was limited by high plasma clearance. Brain exposure at a level expected to support modulation of a pharmacodynamic marker in mouse was achieved when the compound was coadministered with the pan-cytochrome P450 inhibitor 1-aminobenzotriazole.
Stress activated c-Jun N-terminal Kinase-3 (JNK3) has been reported to act on mitochondrion to promote neuronal cell death. Phosphorylation of mitochondrial Voltage-Dependent Anion Channel (VDAC) plays an important role in mitochondria-mediated cell death. Keeping these in view phosphorylation of rat brain VDAC by JNK3 has been studied in vitro. Pro Q Diamond phospho-protein staining experiment demonstrates VDAC is phosphorylated by JNK3. Bilayer electrophysiological experiments show that single-channel conductance of VDAC phosphorylated by JNK3 is significantly lower than that of the native VDAC at a membrane potential. The opening probability of VDAC undergoes massive reduction due to phosphorylation by JNK3. These indicate closure of VDAC due to phosphorylation by JNK3. Treatment of phosphorylated VDAC with alkaline phosphatase reversed the VDAC functional activity as shown by single-channel current and opening probability. The physiological consequence of closure of VDAC as a result of phosphorylation has been attributed to JNK3 dependent mitochondria-mediated apoptosis.
To investigate whether activation of Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) promotes the degeneration of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) by upregulating the protein levels of c-jun N-terminal kinase 3 (JNK3).
Toll-like receptor 3-specific activator, Poly(I:C) (polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid), or PBS was injected into the vitreous humor of Thy1-YFP mice. At 24, 48, and 72 hours after treatments, degeneration of RGCs was assessed by using antibodies against brain-specific homeobox/POU domain protein 3a (Brn3a). A TLR3-specific inhibitor was injected into the vitreous humor with or without Poly(I:C). Western blot assays were performed to determine relative levels of TLR3, JNK3, pJNK3, and sterile alpha and HEAT/Armadillo motif-containing 1 (SARM1) proteins in retinal protein extracts, and immunohistochemistry assays were performed to determine their cellular localization in the retina. Mouse eyes were treated with Poly(I:C) or PBS along with MitoTracker Red, and colocalization of MitoTracker Red and JNK3 in the retinas was determined by using antibodies against JNK3.
Poly(I:C) activated TLR3 and upregulated its downstream target protein JNK3 but not SARM1 in the retina. Poly(I:C) activated TLR3 and upregulated JNK3 specifically in RGCs and promoted a significant degeneration of RGCs over a 72-hour time period. Toll-like receptor 3 upregulated the levels of JNK3 protein in the cytoplasm of RGCs, but not in the mitochondria. Toll-like receptor 3-specific inhibitor downregulated Poly(I:C)-mediated upregulation of JNK3 protein, and, in turn, significantly attenuated TLR3-induced degeneration of RGCs.
Results presented in this study show that the activation of TLR3 alone promotes the degeneration of RGCs by upregulating the protein levels of JNK3.
Momordica charantia (MC) is a medicinal plant for stroke treatment in Traditional Chinese Medicine, but its active compounds and molecular targets are unknown yet. M. charantia polysaccharide (MCP) is one of the important bioactive components in MC. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that MCP has neuroprotective effects against cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury through scavenging superoxide (O2(-)), nitric oxide (NO) and peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) and inhibiting c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase (JNK3) signaling cascades. We conducted experiments with in vivo global and focal cerebral ischemia/reperfusion rat models and in vitro oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD) neural cells. The effects of MCP on apoptotic cell death and infarction volume, the bioactivities of scavenging O2(-), NO and ONOO(-), inhibiting lipid peroxidation and modulating JNK3 signaling pathway were investigated. Major results are summarized as below: (1) MCP dose-dependently attenuated apoptotic cell death in neural cells under OGD condition in vitro and reduced infarction volume in ischemic brains in vivo; (2) MCP had directing scavenging effects on NO, O2(-) and ONOO(-) and inhibited lipid peroxidation; (3) MCP inhibited the activations of JNK3/c-Jun/Fas-L and JNK3/cytochrome C/caspases-3 signaling cascades in ischemic brains in vivo. Taken together, we conclude that MCP could be a promising neuroprotective ingredient of M. charantia and its mechanisms could be at least in part attributed to its antioxidant activities and inhibiting JNK3 signaling cascades during cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury.
Treatment with rotenone, both in vitro and in vivo, is widely used to model dopamine neuron death in Parkinson's disease upon exposure to environmental neurotoxicants and pesticides. Mechanisms underlying rotenone neurotoxicity are still being defined. Our recent studies suggest that rotenone-induced dopamine neuron death involves microtubule destabilization, which leads to accumulation of cytosolic dopamine and consequently reactive oxygen species (ROS). Furthermore, the c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase (JNK) is required for rotenone-induced dopamine neuron death. Here we report that the neural specific JNK3 isoform of the JNKs, but not JNK1 or JNK2, is responsible for this neuron death in primary cultured dopamine neurons. Treatment with taxol, a microtubule stabilizing agent, attenuates rotenone-induced phosphorylation and presumably activation of JNK. This suggests that JNK is activated by microtubule destabilization upon rotenone exposure. Moreover, rotenone inhibits VMAT2 activity but not VMAT2 protein levels. Significantly, treatment with SP600125, a pharmacological inhibitor of JNKs, attenuates rotenone inhibition of VMAT2. Furthermore, decreased VMAT2 activity following in vitro incubation of recombinant JNK3 protein with purified mesencephalic synaptic vesicles suggests that JNK3 can inhibit VMAT2 activity. Together with our previous findings, these results suggest that rotenone induces dopamine neuron death through a series of sequential events including microtubule destabilization, JNK3 activation, VMAT2 inhibition, accumulation of cytosolic dopamine, and generation of ROS. Our data identify JNK3 as a novel regulator of VMAT2 activity.
Tetra-substituted imidazoles were designed as dual inhibitors of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) 3 and p38α mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase. A library of 45 derivatives was prepared and evaluated in a kinase activity assay for their ability to inhibit both kinases, JNK3 and p38α MAP kinase. Dual inhibitors with IC50 values down to the low double-digit nanomolar range at both enzymes were identified. The best balanced dual JNK3/p38α MAP kinase inhibitors are 6m (IC50: JNK3, 18 nM; p38α, 30 nM) and 14d (IC50: JNK3, 26 nM; p38α, 34 nM) featuring both excellent solubility and metabolic stability. They may serve as useful tool compounds for preclinical proof-of-principle studies in order to validate the synergistic role of both kinases in the progression of Huntington's disease.
The c-jun N-terminal kinase 3 (JNK3) is expressed primarily in the brain. Numerous reports have shown that inhibition of JNK3 is a promising strategy for treatment of neurodegeneration. The optimization of aminopyrazole-based JNK3 inhibitors with improved potency, isoform selectivity, and pharmacological properties by structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies utilizing biochemical and cell-based assays, and structure-based drug design is reported. These inhibitors had high selectivity over JNK1 and p38α, minimal cytotoxicity, potent inhibition of 6-OHDA-induced mitochondrial membrane potential dissipation and ROS generation, and good drug metabolism and pharmacokinetic (DMPK) properties for iv dosing. 26n was profiled against 464 kinases and was found to be highly selective hitting only seven kinases with >80% inhibition at 10 μM. Moreover, 26n showed good solubility, good brain penetration, and good DMPK properties. Finally, the crystal structure of 26k in complex with JNK3 was solved at 1.8 Å to explore the binding mode of aminopyrazole based JNK3 inhibitors.
The c-Jun N-terminal Kinases (JNKs) play important roles in cell responses to stress or growth factor stimulation. The JNK1α1 isoform shares >90% identity with a predominantly neuronal JNK3α1 isoform, but JNK3α1 also includes a distinctive 38 amino acid N-terminal sequence. To address the outstanding question of the potential for these JNK isoforms to have different binding partners that mediate different biological actions, the work presented here refined the yeast two-hybrid approach to identify and categorize binding partners for JNK1α1 and JNK3α1. Specifically, site-directed mutagenesis of the JNK1α1 common docking (CD) domain that mediates typical JNK-binding domain (JBD)-dependent interactions, truncation of the distinctive JNK3 N-terminal domain (i.e. ΔN JNK3α1), and interaction evaluation in the yeast two-hybrid system defined the interacting partners as either JNK1-specific interactors (ATF7, FUS, KCNE4, PIAS1, SHANK1, TKT), typical JBD-dependent interactors shared by JNK1α1 and JNK3α1 (AKAP6, BMPR2, EEF1A1, GFAP, GRIP2, GTF2F1, HDAC2, MAP1B, MYO9B, PTPN2, RABGAP1, RUSC2, SUMO1, SYPL1, TOPBP1, ZNF668), or JNK3-specific partners (ATXN1, NNAT, PTGDS) dependent on interaction with the JNK3 N-terminal extension. The interacting partners ATF7, AKAP6, and ATXN1 were explored further as representatives of these different classes. Two potential JBDs were identified in ATF7 as important for its interaction with JNK1α1, but additionally an interaction between ATF7 and ΔN JNK3α1 was shown to be JBD-dependent, suggesting that the JNK3α1 N-terminus prevents interaction with some proteins. For the shared partner AKAP6, one of the multiple potential JBDs predicted by sequence analysis was important for the AKAP6-JNK interaction in the yeast screening system as well as in mammalian cells. Finally, the ATXN1-JNK3α1 interaction was dependent on the JNK3α1 N-terminus in a mammalian cell context. These studies therefore highlight a diversity of potential JNK-interacting partners with both JBD-dependent as well as JBD-independent modes of interaction.
Exposure of human Jurkat T cells to JNK inhibitor IX (JNKi), targeting JNK2 and JNK3, caused apoptotic DNA fragmentation along with G2/M arrest, phosphorylation of Bcl-2, Mcl-1, and Bim, Δψm loss, and activation of Bak and caspase cascade. These JNKi-induced apoptotic events were abrogated by Bcl-2 overexpression, whereas G2/M arrest, cyclin B1 up-regulation, Cdk1 activation, and phosphorylation of Bcl-2 family proteins were sustained. In the concomitant presence of the G1/S blocking agent aphidicolin and JNKi, the cells underwent G1/S arrest and failed to induce all apoptotic events. The JNKi-induced phosphorylation of Bcl-2 family proteins and mitochondrial apoptotic events were suppressed by the Cdk1 inhibitor. Immunofluorescence microscopic analysis revealed that mitotic spindle defect and prometaphase arrest were the underlying factors for the G2/M arrest. These results demonstrate that JNKi-induced mitochondrial apoptosis was caused by microtubule damage-mediated prometaphase arrest, prolonged Cdk1 activation, and phosphorylation of Bcl-2 family proteins in Jurkat T cells.
Although kainate receptors play important roles in ischemic stroke, the molecular mechanisms underlying postischemic regulation of kainate receptors remain unclear. In this study we demonstrate that Src family kinases contribute to the potentiation of kainate receptor function. Brain ischemia and reperfusion induce rapid and sustained phosphorylation of the kainate receptor subunit GluK2 by Src in the rat hippocampus, implicating a critical role for Src-mediated GluK2 phosphorylation in ischemic brain injury. The NMDA and kainate receptors are involved in the tyrosine phosphorylation of GluK2. GluK2 binds to Src, and the tyrosine residue at position 590 (Y590) on GluK2 is a major site of phosphorylation by Src kinases. GluK2 phosphorylation at Y590 is responsible for increases in whole-cell currents and calcium influx in response to transient kainate stimulation. In addition, GluK2 phosphorylation at Y590 facilitates the endocytosis of GluK2 subunits, and the activation of JNK3 and its substrate c-Jun after long-term kainate treatment. Thus, Src phosphorylation of GluK2 plays an important role in the opening of kainate receptor channels and downstream proapoptosis signaling after brain ischemia. The present study reveals an additional mechanism for the regulation of GluK2-containing kainate receptors by Src family kinases, which may be of pathological significance in ischemic stroke.
Many studies have characterized how changes to the stability and internal motions of a protein during activation can contribute to their catalytic function, even when structural changes cannot be observed. Here, unfolding studies and hydrogen-deuterium exchange (HX) mass spectrometry were used to investigate the changes to the stability and conformation/conformational dynamics of JNK1β1 induced by phosphorylative activation. Equivalent studies were also employed to determine the effects of nucleotide binding on both inactive and active JNK1β1 using the ATP analogue, 5'-adenylyl-imidodiphosphate (AMP-PNP). JNK1β1 phosphorylation alters HX in regions involved in catalysis and substrate binding, changes that can be ascribed to functional modifications in either structure and/or backbone flexibility. Increased HX in the hinge between the N- and C-terminal domains implied that it acquires enhanced flexibility upon phosphorylation that may be a prerequisite for interdomain closure. In combination with the finding that nucleotide binding destabilizes the kinase, the patterns of solvent protection by AMP-PNP were consistent with a novel mode of nucleotide binding to the C-terminal domain of a destabilized and open domain conformation of inactive JNK1β1. Solvent protection by AMP-PNP of both N- and C-terminal domains in active JNK1β1 revealed that the domains close around nucleotide upon phosphorylation, concomitantly stabilizing the kinase. This suggests that phosphorylation activates JNK1β1 in part by increasing hinge flexibility to facilitate interdomain closure and the creation of a functional active site. By uncovering the complex interplay that occurs between nucleotide binding and phosphorylation, we present new insight into the unique mechanisms by which JNK1β1 is regulated.
Previous studies have suggested that the novel BH3 mimetic S1 could induce apoptosis in diverse tumor cell lines through endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress or mitochondrial cell death pathways. The activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) through inositol requiring enzyme-1 (IRE1) is closely connected to ER stress-induced apoptosis. However, the role of JNK is complex, as there are different JNK subtypes and the function of each subtype is still not entirely clear. Here we found that the mRNA expression of JNK3 was continuously high in S1-treated human ovarian cancer SKOV3/DDP cells using a human unfolded protein response (UPR) pathway PCR array. Pharmacological inhibition of JNK3 increased cell sensitivity to apoptosis induced by S1. Furthermore, inhibition of JNK3 induced accumulation of both acidic compartment and p62, and upregulated ROS production. Our results suggest that JNK3 plays a pro-survival role during ER stress through preventing the block of autophagic flux and reducing oxidative stress in SKOV3/DDP cells. Inhibition of JNK3 may be a potential method to enhance the killing effect of the Bcl-2 inhibitor S1.
Preservation of beta cell against apoptosis is one of the therapeutic benefits of the glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP1) antidiabetic mimetics for preserving the functional beta cell mass exposed to diabetogenic condition including proinflammatory cytokines. The mitogen activated protein kinase 10 also called c-jun amino-terminal kinase 3 (JNK3) plays a protective role in insulin-secreting cells against death caused by cytokines. In this study, we investigated whether the JNK3 expression is associated with the protective effect elicited by the GLP1 mimetic exendin 4. We found an increase in the abundance of JNK3 in isolated human islets and INS-1E cells cultured with exendin 4. Induction of JNK3 by exendin 4 was associated with an increased survival of INS-1E cells. Silencing of JNK3 prevented the cytoprotective effect of exendin 4 against apoptosis elicited by culture condition and cytokines. These results emphasize the requirement of JNK3 in the antiapoptotic effects of exendin 4.
Stop codon readthrough is used extensively by viruses to expand their gene expression. Until recent discoveries in Drosophila, only a very limited number of readthrough cases in chromosomal genes had been reported. Analysis of conserved protein coding signatures that extend beyond annotated stop codons identified potential stop codon readthrough of four mammalian genes. Here we use a modified targeted bioinformatic approach to identify a further three mammalian readthrough candidates. All seven genes were tested experimentally using reporter constructs transfected into HEK-293T cells. Four displayed efficient stop codon readthrough, and these have UGA immediately followed by CUAG. Comparative genomic analysis revealed that in the four readthrough candidates containing UGA-CUAG, this motif is conserved not only in mammals but throughout vertebrates with the first six of the seven nucleotides being universally conserved. The importance of the CUAG motif was confirmed using a systematic mutagenesis approach. One gene, OPRL1, encoding an opiate receptor, displayed extremely efficient levels of readthrough (∼31%) in HEK-293T cells. Signals both 5' and 3' of the OPRL1 stop codon contribute to this high level of readthrough. The sequence UGA-CUA alone can support 1.5% readthrough, underlying its importance.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) act as signaling molecules during angiogenesis; however, the mechanisms used for such signaling events remain unclear. Stromal cell-derived factor-1α (SDF-1α) is one of the most potent angiogenic chemokines. Here, we examined the role of ROS in the regulation of SDF-1α-dependent angiogenesis.
Bovine aortic endothelial cells were treated with SDF-1α, and intracellular ROS generation was monitored. SDF-1α treatment induced bovine aortic endothelial cell migration and ROS generation, with the majority of ROS generated by bovine aortic endothelial cells at the leading edge of the migratory cells. Antioxidants and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase (NOX) inhibitors blocked SDF-1α-induced endothelial migration. Furthermore, knockdown of either NOX5 or p22phox (a requisite subunit for NOX1/2/4 activation) significantly impaired endothelial motility and tube formation, suggesting that multiple NOXs regulate SDF-1α-dependent angiogenesis. Our previous study demonstrated that c-Jun N-terminal kinase 3 activity is essential for SDF-1α-dependent angiogenesis. Here, we identified that NOX5 is the dominant NOX required for SDF-1α-induced c-Jun N-terminal kinase 3 activation and that NOX5 and MAP kinase phosphatase 7 (MKP7; the c-Jun N-terminal kinase 3 phosphatase) associate with one another but decrease this interaction on SDF-1α treatment. Furthermore, MKP7 activity was inhibited by SDF-1α, and this inhibition was relieved by NOX5 knockdown, indicating that NOX5 promotes c-Jun N-terminal kinase 3 activation by blocking MKP7 activity.
We conclude that NOX is required for SDF-1α signaling and that intracellular redox balance is critical for SDF-1α-induced endothelial migration and angiogenesis.
Sequence matching analyses show that Clostridium tetani neurotoxin shares numerous pentapeptides (68, including multiple occurrences) with 42 human proteins that, when altered, have been associated with epilepsy. Such a peptide sharing is higher than expected, nonstochastic, and involves tetanus toxin-derived epitopes that have been validated as immunopositive in the human host. Of note, an unexpected high level of peptide matching is found in mitogen-activated protein kinase 10 (MK10), a protein selectively expressed in hippocampal areas. On the whole, the data indicate a potential for cross-reactivity between the neurotoxin and specific epilepsy-associated proteins and may help evaluate the potential risk for epilepsy following immune responses induced by tetanus infection. Moreover, this study may contribute to clarifying the etiopathogenesis of the different types of epilepsy.
Berberine is known to improve glucose and lipid metabolism disorders, but it poorly absorbed into the blood stream from the gut. Therefore, the exact underlying mechanism for berberine is still unknown. In this study, we investigated the effect of berberine on glucose metabolism in diabetic rats and tested the hypothesis that berberine acts directly in the terminal ileums.
Rats were divided into a control group, diabetic group (DM), low dose of berberine group (BerL) and high dose of berberine group (BerH). Ileum samples were analyzed using a Roche NimbleGen mRNA array, qPCR and immunohistochemistry.
We found that 8 weeks of treatment with berberine significantly decreased fasting blood glucose levels. An oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) showed that blood glucose was significantly reduced in the BerL and BerH groups before and at 30 min, 60 min and 120 min after oral glucose administration. Plasma postprandial glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) levels were increased in the berberine-treated groups. The ileum from the BerH group had 2112 genes with significantly changed expression (780 increased, 1332 decreased). KEGG pathway analyses indicated that all differentially expressed genes included 9 KEGG pathways. The top two pathways were the MAPK signaling pathway and the GnRH signaling pathway. Q-RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry verified that glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor (Glp1r) and mitogen activated protein kinase 10 (Mapk10) were significantly up-regulated, in contrast, gonadotropin releasing hormone receptor (Gnrhr) and gonadotropin-releasing hormone 1 (Gnrh1) were down-regulated in the BerH group.
Our data suggest that berberine can improve blood glucose levels in diabetic rats. The mechanisms involved may be in the MAPK and GnRh-Glp-1 pathways in the ileum.
Neuronal damage in the hippocampal formation which is more sensitive to ischemic stimulation and easily injured will cause severe learning and memory impairment. Therefore, inhibiting hippocampal neuron injuries is the main contributor for learning and memory impairment during cerebral ischemia. Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is a new type of neurotransmitter that regulates the nervous, circulatory and immune systems as well as various adverse factors that can reduce cerebral vascular or brain parenchyma injury. During an ischemic stroke, H2S inhibits hippocampal neuronal damage, reducing learning and memory impairment. However, this molecular mechanism has not been elucidated clearly. In this study, we established four-vessel occlusion model in rats with cerebral ischemia. We found that NaHS (28 mmol/kg, intraperitoneally, for 7 days before ischemia), donor of H2S, significantly shortened the distance and time of loading onto the hidden platform in the positioning navigation process, decreased the latency in the space exploration process when cognitive testing with Morris water maze was performed during ischemic stroke in rats. NaHS also significantly shortened latency and reduced the number of errors in the platform diving experiment. The survival rate of neurons in the CA1 area of the hippocampus and the phosphorylation of Akt in the neurons were increased, the phosphorylation ASK1 and JNK3 were inhibited by NaHS. After an intracerebroventricular injection of LY294002 (inhibitor of PI3K/Akt, 10 μL, 100 nmol in 25% DMSO in PBS), the above effects of NaHS were attenuated. These findings suggest that H2S may improve the survival rate of hippocampal neurons and reduce the impairment of learning and memory by increasing the phosphorylation of Akt, inhibiting the phosphorylation of ASK1 and JNK3 in rats with induced ischemic stroke.
Although the molecular mechanisms driving chemoresistance and relapse of ovarian cancer have been widely studied, the key molecules have not been identified. In this study, the expression of miR-29b messenger RNA (mRNA) and its targeted genes, myeloid cell leukemia sequence 1, mitogen-activated protein kinase 10 (MAPK10), and autophagy-related protein 9A (ATG9A), were investigated in ovarian carcinomas, and their associations with clinicopathological characteristics and survival of patients with ovarian cancer were analyzed. The protein expression of MCL1, MAPK10, and ATG9A was measured using immunohistochemistry. miR-29b mRNA and ATG9A gene mRNA levels were measured by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Results demonstrated that the percentage of MCL1, MAPK10, and ATG9A protein-positive cases were significantly higher, whereas miR-29b was significantly lower in ovarian serous, mucinous, and clear cell carcinomas than that in normal tissues. MAPK10 was significantly associated with higher histopathologic grading. The percentage of positive myeloid cell leukemia sequence 1, ATG9A, and MAPK10 protein expression and low miR-29b mRNA expression were significantly higher in cases with clinical stage III and IV ovarian cancer than in cases with clinical stage II ovarian cancer. High ATG9A protein and low miR-29b mRNA expression were significantly associated with relapse. Univariate Kaplan-Meier analysis showed a negative correlation between MAPK10 or ATG9A protein expression and overall as well as progression-free survival, whereas a positive correlation was observed between miR-29b mRNA expression and overall as well as progression-free survival. Multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that elevated MAPK10 or ATG9A protein and lowered miR-29b mRNA expression in ovarian carcinoma was an independent poor prognostic predictor. Our study suggested that miR-29b mRNA, MAPK10 protein expression, and ATG9A protein expression are closely related to chemosensitivity of ovarian carcinoma.
The c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) are stress-activated serine-threonine kinases that have recently been linked to various neurological disorders. We previously described a patient with intellectual disability (ID) and seizures (Patient 1), carrying a de novo chromosome translocation affecting the CNS-expressed MAPK10/JNK3 gene. Here, we describe a second ID patient (Patient 2) with a similar translocation that likewise truncates MAPK10/JNK3, highlighting a role for JNK3 in human brain development. We have pinpointed the breakpoint in Patient 2, which is just distal to that in Patient 1. In both patients, the rearrangement resulted in a predicted protein interrupted towards the C-terminal end of the kinase domain. We demonstrate that these truncated proteins, although capable of weak interaction with various known JNK scaffolds, are not capable of phosphorylating the classical JNK target c-Jun in vitro, which suggests that the patient phenotype potentially arises from partial loss of JNK3 function. We next investigated JNK3-binding partners to further explore potential disease mechanisms. We identified PSD-95, SAP102 and SHANK3 as novel interaction partners for JNK3, and we demonstrate that JNK3 and PSD-95 exhibit partially overlapping expression at synaptic sites in cultured hippocampal neurons. Moreover, JNK3, like JNK1, is capable of phosphorylating PSD-95 in vitro, whereas disease-associated mutant JNK3 proteins do not. We conclude that reduced JNK3 activity has potentially deleterious effects on neuronal function via altered regulation of a set of post-synaptic proteins.
Hirschsprung disease (HSCR) is a neurocristopathy characterized by absence of intramural ganglion cells along variable lengths of the gastrointestinal tract. The HSCR phenotype is highly variable with respect to gender, length of aganglionosis, familiality and the presence of additional anomalies. By molecular genetic analysis, a minimum of 11 neuro-developmental genes (RET, GDNF, NRTN, SOX10, EDNRB, EDN3, ECE1, ZFHX1B, PHOX2B, KIAA1279, TCF4) are known to harbor rare, high-penetrance mutations that confer a large risk to the bearer. In addition, two other genes (RET, NRG1) harbor common, low-penetrance polymorphisms that contribute only partially to risk and can act as genetic modifiers. To broaden this search, we examined whether a set of 67 proven and candidate HSCR genes harbored additional modifier alleles. In this pilot study, we utilized a custom-designed array CGH with ∼33,000 test probes at an average resolution of ∼185 bp to detect gene-sized or smaller copy number variants (CNVs) within these 67 genes in 18 heterogeneous HSCR patients. Using stringent criteria, we identified CNVs at three loci (MAPK10, ZFHX1B, SOX2) that are novel, involve regulatory and coding sequences of neuro-developmental genes, and show association with HSCR in combination with other congenital anomalies. Additional CNVs are observed under relaxed criteria. Our research suggests a role for CNVs in HSCR and, importantly, emphasizes the role of variation in regulatory sequences. A much larger study will be necessary both for replication and for identifying the full spectrum of small CNV effects.
To determine the specific gene expression in B-cell lymphoma subtypes, we compared expression profiles of cell lines from transformed follicular lymphoma (tFL), Epstein-Barr virus-negative (EBV(-)) Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) and EBV(+)BL. Complementary DNAs were synthesized from these cell lines and hybridized with the Atlas Human 1.2 Array membrane. Hierarchical clustering analysis based upon the levels of 43 genes highlighted characteristic expression patterns of the 3 lymphoma subtypes. Genes expressed at higher levels in tFL than EBV(-)BL and EBV(+)BL included calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I (CAMK1) and mitogen-activated protein kinase 10 (MAPK10). EBV(-)BL was characterized by high-level expression of amyloid beta precursor protein (APP), heat shock 27 kD protein 1 (HSPB1) and mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 1 (MADH1). Gardner-Rasheed feline sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (FGR) was the most significant gene to delineate EBV(+)BL. A subtype prediction algorithm using 34 genes correctly classified 22 (92%) of 24 lymphomas into FL/tFL, EBV(-)BL or EBV(+)BL. By comparison with normal reference B-cell materials, the expression patterns of the selected genes were characteristic of lymphomas. We extended the clustering analysis to cell lines from de novo diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The DLBCL cell lines were either separated from the former 3 lymphoma subtypes or segregated with EBV(+)BL, possibly reflecting variable genetic abnormalities. The associations of CAMK1 with tFL, APP and MADH1 with EBV(-)BL, FGR with EBV(+)BL, and BCL2 with tFL and DLBCL were confirmed by real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase-mediated polymerase chain reaction assays. This study has provided new molecular markers, expressions of which are closely associated with B-cell lymphoma subtypes.
Schwann cells are the main source of paracrine support to motor neurons. Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction have been correlated to motor neuron death in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Despite the involvement of Schwann cells in early neuromuscular disruption in ALS, detailed molecular events of a dying-back triggering are unknown. Sciatic nerves of presymptomatic (60-day-old) SOD1(G93A) mice were submitted to a high-density oligonucleotide microarray analysis. DAVID demonstrated the deregulated genes related to death, stress and mitochondrion, which allowed the identification of Cell cycle, ErbB signaling, Tryptophan metabolism and Rig-I-like receptor signaling as the most representative KEGG pathways. The protein-protein interaction networks based upon deregulated genes have identified the top hubs (TRAF2, H2AFX, E2F1, FOXO3, MSH2, NGFR, TGFBR1) and bottlenecks (TRAF2, E2F1, CDKN1B, TWIST1, FOXO3). Schwann cells were enriched from the sciatic nerve of presymptomatic mice using flow cytometry cell sorting. qPCR showed the up regulated (Ngfr, Cdnkn1b, E2f1, Traf2 and Erbb3, H2afx, Cdkn1a, Hspa1, Prdx, Mapk10) and down-regulated (Foxo3, Mtor) genes in the enriched Schwann cells. In conclusion, molecular analyses in the presymptomatic sciatic nerve demonstrated the involvement of death, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial pathways in the Schwann cell non-autonomous mechanisms in the early stages of ALS.
The human dimension of the Columbian Exchange entailed substantial genetic admixture between ancestral source populations from Africa, the Americas and Europe, which had evolved separately for many thousands of years. We sought to address the implications of the creation of admixed American genomes, containing novel allelic combinations, for human health and fitness via analysis of an admixed Colombian population from Medellin. Colombian genomes from Medellin show a wide range of three-way admixture contributions from ancestral source populations. The primary ancestry component for the population is European (average = 74.6%, range = 45.0%-96.7%), followed by Native American (average = 18.1%, range = 2.1%-33.3%) and African (average = 7.3%, range = 0.2%-38.6%). Locus-specific patterns of ancestry were evaluated to search for genomic regions that are enriched across the population for particular ancestry contributions. Adaptive and innate immune system related genes and pathways are particularly over-represented among ancestry-enriched segments, including genes (HLA-B and MAPK10) that are involved in defense against endemic pathogens such as malaria. Genes that encode functions related to skin pigmentation (SCL4A5) and cutaneous glands (EDAR) are also found in regions with anomalous ancestry patterns. These results suggest the possibility that ancestry-specific loci were differentially retained in the modern admixed Colombian population based on their utility in the New World environment.
To study the role of genes of Wnt signaling pathway in keratocystic odontogenic tumor (KCOT) of the jaw bones.
Fresh specimens of KCOT and the same patient 's normal oral mucosa were obtained. Then RNA was extracted. Gene chip was used to detect the genes of Wnt signaling pathway.
Compared to normal oral mucosa, there were 5 genes of Wnt signaling pathway in KCOT changed, including CAMK2A down-regulated, FZD3, MAPK10, PRKX and WNT5a up-regulated.
There are abnormal expressions of genes of Wnt pathway in KCOT. Genes of Wnt pathway plays certain roles in KCOT.
Everolimus (RAD001, Afinitor(®)) is an oral, selective mTOR inhibitor recently approved by the US-FDA in combination with exemestane for treatment of hormone receptor positive advanced breast cancer. To date, no molecular predictors of response to everolimus in breast cancer have been identified. We hypothesized predictive markers could be identified using preclinical models. Using a molecularly characterized panel of human breast cancer and immortalized breast epithelial cell lines, we determined sensitivity to everolimus alone or in combination with ER- or HER2- targeted therapy. Gene expression microarrays and comparative genomic hybridization were performed on the cell lines to identify predictors of response to everolimus. Among 13 everolimus-sensitive cell lines, 10/13(77 %) were luminal, while in 26 resistant cell lines, 16/26(62 %) were non-luminal, and 10/26(38 %) were luminal. Only 3/24 non-luminal lines were sensitive, two of which were HER2+. Everolimus enhanced the anti-proliferative effect of both tamoxifen (TAM) and fulvestrant (FUL) in ER+ breast cancer cell lines, as well as trastuzumab in HER2+ cell lines. Everolimus + FUL but not everolimus + TAM reversed acquired resistance to TAM. Everolimus inhibited mTOR in tested cell lines by decreasing S6 phosphorylation, mediating its anti-proliferative effect by G0/G1 cell cycle arrest and induction of apoptosis. Chromosomal amplifications of AURKA (p value = 0.04) and HER2 (p value = 0.03) were each associated with increased sensitivity to everolimus. Transcript expression microarrays identified GSK3A, PIK3R3, KLF8, and MAPK10 among the genes overexpressed in sensitive luminal lines, while PGP, RPL38, GPT, and GFAP were among the genes overexpressed in resistant luminal cell lines. These preclinical in vitro data provide further support for continued clinical development of everolimus in luminal (ER+ or HER2+) breast cancer in combination with targeted therapies. We identified several potential molecular markers associated with response to everolimus that will require validation in clinical material.
Virtual screening has the potential to accelerate and reduce costs of probe development and drug discovery. To develop and benchmark virtual screening methods, validation data sets are commonly used. Over the years, such data sets have been constructed to overcome the problems of analogue bias and artificial enrichment. With the rapid growth of public domain databases containing high-throughput screening data, such as the PubChem BioAssay database, there is an increased possibility to use such data for validation. In this study, we identify PubChem data sets suitable for validation of both structure- and ligand-based virtual screening methods. To achieve this, high-throughput screening data for which a crystal structure of the bioassay target was available in the PDB were identified. Thereafter, the data sets were inspected to identify structures and data suitable for use in validation studies. In this work, we present seven data sets (MMP13, DUSP3, PTPN22, EPHX2, CTDSP1, MAPK10, and CDK5) compiled using this method. In the seven data sets, the number of active compounds varies between 19 and 369 and the number of inactive compounds between 59 405 and 337 634. This gives a higher ratio of the number of inactive to active compounds than what is found in most benchmark data sets. We have also evaluated the screening performance using docking and 3D shape similarity with default settings. To characterize the data sets, we used physicochemical similarity and 2D fingerprint searches. We envision that these data sets can be a useful complement to current data sets used for method evaluation.
We have studied the effects of cell communication on human beta cell function and resistance to cytotoxicity using the novel human insulin-secreting cell line 1.1B4 configured as monolayers and pseudoislets. Incubation with the incretin gut hormones GLP-1 and GIP caused dose-dependent stimulation of insulin secretion from 1.1B4 cell monolayers and pseudoislets. The secretory responses were 1.5-2.7-fold greater than monolayers. Cell viability (MTT), DNA damage (comet assay) and apoptosis (acridine orange/ethidium bromide staining) were investigated following 2-h exposure of 1.1B4 monolayers and pseudoislets to ninhydrin, H2O2, streptozotocin, glucose, palmitate or cocktails of proinflammatory cytokines. All agents tested decreased viability and increased DNA damage and apoptosis in both 1.1B4 monolayers and pseudoislets. However, pseudoislets exhibited significantly greater resistance to cytotoxicity (1.5-2.7-fold increases in LD50) and lower levels of DNA damage (1.3-3.4-fold differences in percentage tail DNA and olive tail moment) and apoptosis (1.3-1.5-fold difference) compared to monolayers. Measurement of gene expression by reverse-transcription, real-time PCR showed that genes involved with insulin secretion (INS, PDX1, PCSK1, PCSK2, GLP1R and GIPR), cell-cell communication (GJD2, GJA1 and CDH1) and antioxidant defence (SOD1, SOD2, GPX1 and CAT) were significantly upregulated in pseudoislets compared to monolayers, whilst the expression of proapoptotic genes (NOS2, MAPK8, MAPK10 and NFKB1) showed no significant differences. In summary, these data indicate cell-communication associated with three-dimensional islet architecture is important both for effective insulin secretion and for protection of human beta cells against cytotoxicity.
High altitude pulmonary edema (HAPE) is a life-threatening form of non-cardiogenic edema which occurs in unacclimatized but otherwise normal individuals within two to four days after rapid ascent to altitude beyond 3000 m. The precise pathoetiology and inciting mechanisms regulating HAPE remain unclear.
We performed global gene expression profiling in individuals with established HAPE compared to acclimatized individuals. Our data suggests concurrent modulation of multiple pathways which regulate vascular homeostasis and consequently lung fluid dynamics. These pathways included those which regulate vasoconstriction through smooth muscle contraction, cellular actin cytoskeleton rearrangements and endothelial permeability/dysfunction. Some notable genes within these pathways included MYLK; rho family members ARGEF11, ARHGAP24; cell adhesion molecules such as CLDN6, CLDN23, PXN and VCAM1 besides other signaling intermediates. Further, several important regulators of systemic/pulmonary hypertension including ADRA1D, ECE1, and EDNRA were upregulated in HAPE. We also observed significant upregulation of genes involved in paracrine signaling through chemokines and lymphocyte activation pathways during HAPE represented by transcripts of TNF, JAK2, MAP2K2, MAP2K7, MAPK10, PLCB1, ARAF, SOS1, PAK3 and RELA amongst others. Perturbation of such pathways can potentially skew vascular homeostatic equilibrium towards altered vascular permeability. Additionally, differential regulation of hypoxia-sensing, hypoxia-response and OXPHOS pathway genes in individuals with HAPE were also observed.
Our data reveals specific components of the complex molecular circuitry underlying HAPE. We show concurrent perturbation of multiple pathways regulating vascular homeostasis and suggest multi-genic nature of regulation of HAPE.
Aging is associated with higher incidence of heart failure and death following myocardial infarction (MI). The molecular and cellular changes that lead to these worse outcomes are not known.
Young and aging mice underwent induction of MI by LAD ligation. There was a significant increase in mortality in the aging mice. Neither the young nor aging hearts after MI had inducible ventricular tachycardia. Cardiomyocyte apoptosis increases early after MI in young and aging mice, but to a much greater degree in the aging mice. Caspase inhibition with Ac-DEVD-CHO resulted in a 61% reduction in activated caspase-3 and an 84% reduction in apoptosis in cardiomyocytes in young mice (P < 0.05), but not in aging mice. Gene pathway profiling demonstrated activation of both the caspase and Map3k1/Mapk10 pathways in aging mice following MI, which may contribute to their resistance to caspase inhibition.
Aging hearts activate distinct apoptotic pathways have more cardiomyocyte apoptosis and are resistant to antiapoptotic therapies following MI. Novel or combination approaches may be required to improve outcomes in aging patients following MI.
In this study, three kinds of phenothiazine drugs were analyzed to explore their potential antitumor mechanisms. First, target proteins that could interact with chlorpromazine, fluphenazine and trifluoperazine were predicted. Then, the target proteins of the three drugs were intersected. Cell signaling pathway enrichment and related disease enrichment were conducted for the intersected proteins to extract the enrichment categories associated with tumors. By regulation network analysis of the protein interactions, the mechanisms of action of these target proteins in tumor tissue were clarified, thus confirming the potential antitumor mechanisms of the phenothiazine drugs. The final results of cell signaling pathway enrichment and related disease enrichment showed that the categories with the highest score were all found in tumors. Target proteins belonging to the tumor category included signaling pathway members such as Wnt, MAPK and retinoic acid receptor. Moreover, another target protein, MAPK8, could indirectly act on target proteins CDK2, IGF1R, GSK3B, RARA, FGFR2 and MAPK10, thereby affecting tumor cell division and proliferation. Therefore, phenothiazine drugs may have potential antitumor effects, and tumor-associated target proteins play important roles in the process of cell signaling transduction cascades.
Ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL) is a kind of disease with physical barriers and neurological disorders. The objective of this study was to explore the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in OPLL patient ligament cells and identify the target sites for the prevention and treatment of OPLL in clinic. Gene expression data GSE5464 was downloaded from Gene Expression Omnibus; then DEGs were screened by limma package in R language, and changed functions and pathways of OPLL cells compared to normal cells were identified by DAVID (The Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery); finally, an interaction network of DEGs was constructed by string. A total of 1536 DEGs were screened, with 31 down-regulated and 1505 up-regulated genes. Response to wounding function and Toll-like receptor signaling pathway may involve in the development of OPLL. Genes, such as PDGFB, PRDX2 may involve in OPLL through response to wounding function. Toll-like receptor signaling pathway enriched genes such as TLR1, TLR5, and TLR7 may involve in spine cord injury in OPLL. PIK3R1 was the hub gene in the network of DEGs with the highest degree; INSR was one of the most closely related genes of it. OPLL related genes screened by microarray gene expression profiling and bioinformatics analysis may be helpful for elucidating the mechanism of OPLL.
Although recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified a handful of variants with best significance for coronary artery disease (CAD), it remains a challenge to summarize the underlying biological information from the abundant genotyping data. Here, we propose an integrated network analysis that effectively combines GWAS genotyping dataset, protein-protein interaction (PPI) database, literature and pathway annotation information. This three-step approach was illustrated for a comprehensive network analysis of CAD as the following. First, a network was constructed from PPI database and CAD seed genes mined from the available literatures. Then, susceptibility network modules were captured from the results of gene-based association tests. Finally, susceptibility modules were annotated with potential mechanisms for CAD via the KEGG pathway database. Our network analysis identified four susceptibility modules for CAD including a complex module that consisted of 15 functional inter-connected sub-modules, AGPAT3-AGPAT4-PPAP2B module, ITGA11-ITGB1 module and EMCN-SELL module. MAPK10 and COL4A2 among the top-scored focal adhesion pathway related module were the most significant genes (MAPK10: OR=32.5, P=3.5 × 10(-11); COL4A2: OR=2.7, P=2.8 × 10(-10)). The significance of the two genes were further validated by other two gene-based association tests (MAPK10: P=0.009 and 0.007; COL4A2: P=0.001 and 0.023) and another independent GWAS dataset (MAPK10: P=0.001; COL4A2: P=0.0004). Furthermore, 34 out of 44 previously reported CAD susceptibility genes were captured by our CAD PPI network and 17 of them were also significant genes. The susceptibility modules identified in our study might provide novel clues for the clarification of CAD pathogenesis in the future.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have revealed numerous associations between many phenotypes and gene candidates. Frequently, however, further elucidation of gene function has not been achieved. A recent GWAS identified 69 candidate genes associated with elevated liver enzyme concentrations, which are clinical markers of liver disease. To investigate the role of these genes in liver homeostasis, we narrowed down this list to 12 genes based on zebrafish orthology, zebrafish liver expression and disease correlation. To assess the function of gene candidates during liver development, we assayed hepatic progenitors at 48 hours post fertilization (hpf) and hepatocytes at 72 hpf using in situ hybridization following morpholino knockdown in zebrafish embryos. Knockdown of three genes (pnpla3, pklr and mapk10) decreased expression of hepatic progenitor cells, whereas knockdown of eight genes (pnpla3, cpn1, trib1, fads2, slc2a2, pklr, mapk10 and samm50) decreased cell-specific hepatocyte expression. We then induced liver injury in zebrafish embryos using acetaminophen exposure and observed changes in liver toxicity incidence in morphants. Prioritization of GWAS candidates and morpholino knockdown expedites the study of newly identified genes impacting liver development and represents a feasible method for initial assessment of candidate genes to instruct further mechanistic analyses. Our analysis can be extended to GWAS for additional disease-associated phenotypes.
To determine the profiles of differential expression of genes and micro (mi)RNAs in patients with alcoholic hepatitis.
Total RNA was extracted from peripheral blood samples of patients with alcoholic hepatitis and control individuals. Microarrays were utilized to detect genes and miRNAs differentially expressed between the two groups. The significance level (P-values) and false discovery rate were assessed with a random variance model. Node genes and key miRNAs were identified and analyzed to determine the roles of various molecular networks and processes in disease pathogenesis.
A total of 1123 genes and 13 miRNAs were differentially expressed in patients with alcoholic hepatitis. The node genes modulating disease-related networks were: MAPK10, RAP1A, ADCY8, CBL, and SOCS1. The key miRNAs were: hsa-miR-570, hsa-miR-29, chsa-miR-1228*, hsa-miR-99a*, hsa-miR-1299, and hsa-miR-326.
Alcoholic hepatitis patients show differential expression of genes involved in a broad range of biological processes, including apoptosis, immune response, activity of cancer genes, cell cycle and glutathione metabolism. This disease-related profile of gene expression provides valuable insights into the pathogenic process and may help future efforts to develop effective diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for alcoholic hepatitis.
The effective detection and management of muscle-invasive bladder Transition Cell Carcinoma (TCC) continues to be an urgent clinical challenge. While some differences of gene expression and function in papillary (Ta), superficial (T1) and muscle-invasive (≥T2) bladder cancers have been investigated, the understanding of mechanisms involved in the progression of bladder tumors remains incomplete. Statistical methods of pathway-enrichment, cluster analysis and text-mining can extract and help interpret functional information about gene expression patterns in large sets of genomic data. The public availability of patient-derived expression microarray data allows open access and analysis of large amounts of clinical data. Using these resources, we investigated gene expression differences associated with tumor progression and muscle-invasive TCC. Gene expression was calculated relative to Ta tumors to assess progression-associated differences, revealing a network of genes related to Ras/MAPK and PI3K signaling pathways with increased expression. Further, we identified genes within this network that are similarly expressed in superficial Ta and T1 stages but altered in muscle-invasive T2 tumors, finding 7 genes (COL3A1, COL5A1, COL11A1, FN1, ErbB3, MAPK10 and CDC25C) whose expression patterns in muscle-invasive tumors are consistent in 5 to 7 independent outside microarray studies. Further, we found increased expression of the fibrillar collagen proteins COL3A1 and COL5A1 in muscle-invasive tumor samples and metastatic T24 cells. Our results suggest that increased expression of genes involved in mitogenic signaling may support the progression of muscle-invasive bladder tumors that generally lack activating mutations in these pathways, while expression changes of fibrillar collagens, fibronectin and specific signaling proteins are associated with muscle-invasive disease. These results identify potential biomarkers and targets for TCC treatments, and provide an integrated systems-level perspective of TCC pathobiology to inform future studies.
Approximately 10% of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias (B-ALLs) overexpress the cytokine receptor subunit CRLF2, which may confer a poor prognosis. CRLF2 binds its ligand thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) as a heterodimer with IL7R. Subsets of CRLF2-overexpressing B-ALLs also have a gain-of-function CRLF2 F232C mutation or activating mutations in JAK2. Whether these mutant alleles confer differences in signaling has not been addressed. Through a domain mutation analysis, we demonstrate a distinct dependence on the CRLF2 intracellular tyrosine Y368 in signaling by CRLF2 F232C, but not signaling induced by TSLP or through CRLF2/mutant JAK2. In contrast, CRLF2 signaling in each context is strictly dependent on both the CRLF2 box1 domain and the intracellular tryptophan W286. Using a global quantitative analysis of tyrosine phosphorylation induced by TSLP, we previously identified TSLP-induced phosphorylation of multiple kinases implicated in B-cell receptor signaling, including Lyn, Btk, Hck, Syk, MAPK8, MAPK9, and MAPK10. We now demonstrate that cells dependent on CRLF2/mutant JAK2 have reduced phosphorylation at these targets, suggesting that the kinases promote TSLP-mediated proliferation but serve as negative regulators of CRLF2/mutant JAK2 signaling. Thus, targetable nodes downstream of CRLF2 differ based on the presence or absence of additional mutations in CRLF2 signaling components.
Chromosome 4q deletion syndrome (4q- syndrome) is a rare condition, with an estimated incidence of 1 in 100,000. Although variable, the clinical spectrum commonly includes craniofacial, developmental, digital, skeletal, and cardiac involvement. Data on the genotype-phenotype correlation within the 4q arm are limited. We present detailed clinical and genetic information by array CGH on 20 patients with 4q deletions. We identified a patient who has a ∼465 kb deletion (186,770,069-187,234,800, hg18 coordinates) in 4q35.1 with all clinical features for 4q deletion syndrome except for developmental delay, suggesting that this is a critical region for this condition and a specific gene responsible for orofacial clefts and congenital heart defects resides in this region. Since the patients with terminal deletions all had cleft palate, our results provide further evidence that a gene associated with clefts is located on the terminal segment of 4q. By comparing and contrasting our patients' genetic information and clinical features, we found significant genotype-phenotype correlations at a single gene level linking specific phenotypes to individual genes. Based on these data, we constructed a hypothetical partial phenotype-genotype map for chromosome 4q which includes BMP3, SEC31A, MAPK10, SPARCL1, DMP1, IBSP, PKD2, GRID2, PITX2, NEUROG2, ANK2, FGF2, HAND2, and DUX4 genes.
Pancreatic β-cell dysfunction is central to type 2 diabetes pathogenesis. Prolonged elevated levels of circulating free-fatty acids and hyperglycemia, also termed glucolipotoxicity, mediate β-cell dysfunction and apoptosis associated with increased c-Jun N-terminal Kinase (JNK) activity. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and oxidative stress are elicited by palmitate and high glucose concentrations further potentiating JNK activity. Our aim was to determine the role of the JNK subtypes JNK1, JNK2 and JNK3 in palmitate and high glucose-induced β-cell apoptosis. We established insulin-producing INS1 cell lines stably expressing JNK subtype specific shRNAs to understand the differential roles of the individual JNK isoforms. JNK activity was increased after 3 h of palmitate and high glucose exposure associated with increased expression of ER and mitochondrial stress markers. JNK1 shRNA expressing INS1 cells showed increased apoptosis and cleaved caspase 9 and 3 compared to non-sense shRNA expressing control INS1 cells when exposed to palmitate and high glucose associated with increased CHOP expression, ROS formation and Puma mRNA expression. JNK2 shRNA expressing INS1 cells did not affect palmitate and high glucose induced apoptosis or ER stress markers, but increased Puma mRNA expression compared to non-sense shRNA expressing INS1 cells. Finally, JNK3 shRNA expressing INS1 cells did not induce apoptosis compared to non-sense shRNA expressing INS1 cells when exposed to palmitate and high glucose but showed increased caspase 9 and 3 cleavage associated with increased DP5 and Puma mRNA expression. These data suggest that JNK1 protects against palmitate and high glucose-induced β-cell apoptosis associated with reduced ER and mitochondrial stress.
Water is the natural medium of molecules in the cell and plays an important role in protein structure, function and interaction with small molecule ligands. However, the widely used molecular mechanics Poisson-Boltzmann surface area (MM/PBSA) method for binding energy calculation does not explicitly take account of water molecules that mediate key protein-ligand interactions. We have developed a protocol to include water molecules that mediate ligand-protein interactions as part of the protein structure in calculation of MM/PBSA binding energies (a method we refer to as water-MM/PBSA) for a series of JNK3 kinase inhibitors. Improved correlation between water-MM/PBSA binding energies and experimental IC50 values was obtained compared to that obtained from classical MM/PBSA binding energy. This improved correlation was further validated using sets of neuraminidase and avidin inhibitors. The observed improvement, however, appears to be limited to systems in which there are water-mediated ligand-protein hydrogen bond interactions. We conclude that the water-MM/PBSA method performs better than classical MM/PBSA in predicting binding affinities when water molecules play a direct role in mediating ligand-protein hydrogen bond interactions.
Although arrestins bind dozens of non-receptor partners, the interaction sites for most signaling proteins remain unknown. Here we report the identification of arrestin-3 elements involved in binding MAP kinase JNK3α2. Using purified JNK3α2 and MBP fusions containing separated arrestin-3 domains and peptides exposed on the non-receptor-binding surface of arrestin-3 we showed that both domains bind JNK3α2 and identified one element on the N-domain and two on the C-domain that directly interact with JNK3α2. Using in vitro competition we confirmed that JNK3α2 engages identified N-domain element and one of the C-domain peptides in the full-length arrestin-3. The 25-amino acid N-domain element has the highest affinity for JNK3α2, suggesting that it is the key site for JNK3α2 docking. The identification of elements involved in protein-protein interactions paves the way to targeted redesign of signaling proteins to modulate cell signaling in desired ways. The tools and methods developed here to elucidate the molecular mechanism of arrestin-3 interactions with JNK3α2 are suitable for mapping of arrestin-3 sites involved in interactions with other partners.
The activity of all mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) is stimulated via phosphorylation by upstream MAPK kinases (MAPKK), which are in their turn activated via phosphorylation by MAPKK kinases (MAPKKKs). The cells ensure the specificity of signaling in these cascades by employing a variety of scaffolding proteins that bind matching MAPKKKs, MAPKKs, and MAPKs. All four vertebrate arrestin subtypes bind JNK3, but only arrestin-3 serves as a scaffold, promoting JNK3 activation in intact cells. Arrestin-3-mediated JNK3 activation does not depend on arrestin-3 interaction with G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), as demonstrated by the ability of some arrestin mutants that cannot bind receptors to activate JNK3, whereas certain mutants with enhanced GPCR binding fail to promote JNK3 activation. Recent findings suggest that arrestin-3 directly binds both MAPKKs necessary for JNK activation and facilitates JNK3 phosphorylation at both Thr (by MKK4) and Tyr (by MKK7). JNK3 is expressed in a limited set of cell types, whereas JNK1 and JNK2 isoforms are as ubiquitous as arrestin-3. Recent study showed that arrestin-3 facilitates the activation of JNK1 and JNK2, scaffolding MKK4/7-JNK1/2/3 signaling complexes. In all cases, arrestin-3 acts by bringing the kinases together: JNK phosphorylation shows biphasic dependence on arrestin-3, being enhanced at lower and suppressed at supraoptimal concentrations. Thus, arrestin-3 regulates the activity of multiple JNK isoforms, suggesting that it might play a role in survival and apoptosis of all cell types.
Astragalus is a widely used traditional Chinese medicine and has been proven beneficial for many aspects of human health. It is important to explore the neuroprotective effect and mechanism of astragalus injection in cerebral ischemia reperfusion injury.
The focal cerebral ischemic model with middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) reperfusion was established by Longa's method in healthy adult male Wistar rats, and treated by injecting intraperitoneally astragalus injection (3 ml/kg). The neurobehavioral function of rats was evaluated by Longa's test. The cerebral blood flow (CBF) was measured by laser Doppler flowmetry and the cerebral infarct volume was calculated by tetrazolium chloride (TTC) stain. The shape and structure of neurons in parahippocampal area was observed by HE stain and the neuronal apoptosis was detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) and flow cytometry. The expressions of c-jun N-terminal kinase 3 (JNK3) mRNA and protein were determined by RT-PCR and immunohistochemical assay and Western blotting respectively.
After treatment with astragalus injection, the expressions of JNK3 mRNA and protein reduced significantly, the number of neuronal apoptosis minus, the cerebral infarct volume shrink, the neuronal shape-structure and animal neurobehavioral function improved significantly than those in model rats.
It is suggested that astragalus injection could inhibit neuronal apoptosis, reduce infarct volume and improve neurobehavioral function by down-regulating the expression of JNK3 gene after cerebral ischemia reperfusion injury in rats.
Disruptions in microtubule motor transport are associated with a variety of neurodegenerative diseases. Post-translational modification of the cargo-binding domain of the light and heavy chains of kinesin has been shown to regulate transport, but less is known about how modifications of the motor domain affect transport. Here we report on the effects of phosphorylation of a mammalian kinesin motor domain by the kinase JNK3 at a conserved serine residue (Ser-175 in the B isoform and Ser-176 in the A and C isoforms). Phosphorylation of this residue has been implicated in Huntington disease, but the mechanism by which Ser-175 phosphorylation affects transport is unclear. The ATPase, microtubule-binding affinity, and processivity are unchanged between a phosphomimetic S175D and a nonphosphorylatable S175A construct. However, we find that application of force differentiates between the two. Placement of negative charge at Ser-175, through phosphorylation or mutation, leads to a lower stall force and decreased velocity under a load of 1 piconewton or greater. Sedimentation velocity experiments also show that addition of a negative charge at Ser-175 favors the autoinhibited conformation of kinesin. These observations imply that when cargo is transported by both dynein and phosphorylated kinesin, a common occurrence in the cell, there may be a bias that favors motion toward the minus-end of microtubules. Such bias could be used to tune transport in healthy cells when properly regulated but contribute to a disease state when misregulated.
Arrestin-3 was previously shown to bind JNK3α2, MKK4, and ASK1. However, full JNK3α2 activation requires phosphorylation by both MKK4 and MKK7. Using purified proteins we show that arrestin-3 directly interacts with MKK7 and promotes JNK3α2 phosphorylation by both MKK4 and MKK7 in vitro as well as in intact cells. The binding of JNK3α2 promotes an arrestin-3 interaction with MKK4 while reducing its binding to MKK7. Interestingly, the arrestin-3 concentration optimal for scaffolding the MKK7-JNK3α2 module is ∼10-fold higher than for the MKK4-JNK3α2 module. The data provide a mechanistic basis for arrestin-3-dependent activation of JNK3α2. The opposite effects of JNK3α2 on arrestin-3 interactions with MKK4 and MKK7 is the first demonstration that the kinase components in mammalian MAPK cascades regulate each other's interactions with a scaffold protein. The results show how signaling outcomes can be affected by the relative expression of scaffolding proteins and components of signaling cascades that they assemble.
Upon DNA damage, ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) kinase triggers multiple events to promote cell survival and facilitate repair. If damage is excessive, ATM stimulates cytokine secretion to alert neighboring cells and apoptosis to eliminate the afflicted cell. ATM augments cell survival by activating nuclear factor (NF)-κB; however, how ATM induces cytokine production and apoptosis remains elusive. Here we uncover a p53-independent mechanism that transmits ATM-driven cytokine and caspase signals upon strong genotoxic damage. Extensive DNA lesions stimulated two sequential NF-κB activation phases, requiring ATM and NEMO/IKK-γ: The first phase induced TNF-α-TNFR1 feedforward signaling, promoting the second phase and driving RIP1 phosphorylation. In turn, RIP1 kinase triggered JNK3/MAPK10-dependent interleukin-8 secretion and FADD-mediated proapoptotic caspase-8 activation. Thus, in the context of excessive DNA damage, ATM employs NEMO and RIP1 kinase through autocrine TNF-α signaling to switch on cytokine production and caspase activation. These results shed light on cell-fate regulation by ATM.
Serum-response factor (SRF) is an obligatory transcription factor, required for the formation of vertebrate mesoderm leading to the origin of the cardiovascular system. Protein A-TEV-tagged chromatin immunoprecipitation technology was used to collect direct SRF-bound gene targets from pluripotent P19 cells, induced by Me2SO treatment into an enriched cardiac cell population. From 242 sequenced DNA fragments, we identified 188 genomic DNA fragments as potential direct SRF targets that contain CArG boxes and CArG-like boxes. Of the 92 contiguous genes that were identified, a subgroup of 43 SRF targets was then further validated by co-transfection assays with SRF. Expression patterns of representative candidate genes were compared with the LacZ reporter expression activity of the endogenous SRF gene. According to the Unigene data base, 84% of the SRF target candidates were expressed, at least, in the heart. In SRF null embryonic stem cells, 81% of these SRF target candidates were greatly affected by the absence of SRF. Among these SRF-regulated genes, Raf1, Map4k4, and Bicc1 have essential roles in mesoderm formation. The 12 regulated SRF target genes, Mapk10 (JNK3), Txnl2, Azi2, Tera, Sema3a, Lrp4, Actc1, Myl3, Hspg2, Pgm2, Hif3a, and Asb5, have been implicated in cardiovascular formation, and the Ski and Hes6 genes have roles in muscle differentiation. SRF target genes related to cell mitosis and cycle, E2f5, Npm1, Cenpb, Rbbp6, and Scyl1, expressed in the heart tissue were differentially regulated in SRF null ES cells.
Despite the uncontested role of p53 in cycle arrest/cell death after cisplatin treatment, to date the question whether wild-type p53 confers a resistant or sensitive status on the cell is still a matter of debate. Isogenic and isophenotypic human thyroid papillary carcinoma cell line variants for p53 differently expressed cycle genes after cisplatin treatment. Seven genes (CDC6-related protein, CCNC, GAS1, TFDP2, MAPK10/JNK3, WEE1, RPA1) selected after expression on an Atlas human cell cycle array were analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR. While cisplatin treatment increased their expression in p53 wild-type cells it decreased it in cells with inactivated p53 and had no or less effect on cells with mutated p53. These results show that in a well-defined system, different alterations of p53 can lead to a different regulation of genes and hence to either resistance or sensitivity to cisplatin. Moreover for the first time, MAPK10/JNK3 was identified in human thyroid cells and tissue. Four of the genes (CDC6-related protein, CCNC, GAS1 and TFDP2) were decreased in human papillary carcinoma tissues. Relevance of these genes (especially a decrease in GAS1 in thyroid papillary carcinoma) in various malignant pathologies has already been shown. These genes may be explored as new markers in advanced thyroid cancer such as metastatic and anaplastic forms displaying p53 alterations.
Mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases are proline-directed, serine/threonine kinases that respond to a variety of extracellular signals. A subgroup of these kinases, stress-activated protein (SAP) kinases, phosphorylate c-jun in response to cellular stress. Using monoclonal antibody (MAb) 3F12, we have cloned and partially characterized p493F12 kinase, a mouse homologue of the rat SAP beta kinase and described its expression in the adult and developing mouse. Unlike previously reported MAP and SAP kinases, it is primarily expressed as a 2.7 kb transcript in neurons in the nervous system of the adult mouse. A 2.4 kb transcript is also expressed in the testis. Immunocytochemically, MAb 3F12 decorates a loop-like structure encircling the nucleus in the cytoplasm of neurons in the adult brain, and distinct perinuclear dots in the embryos. In situ hybridization first reveals expression in post-mitotic neurons, on embryonic day 11. The mRNA is also expressed in the Neuro-2A neuroblastoma cell line and is not upregulated in response to differentiating agents. The neuronal specificity of this kinase suggests the presence of a signal transduction cascade unique to neurons. As the amino acid sequence is highly conserved in the human and mouse, the latter may serve as a model for regulation and expression of this kinase.
Monoclonal antibody 3F12 identifies a cytoplasmic antigen of 49 kDa in human hippocampus and neocortex. The distribution of 3F12 immunoreactive neurons closely matches that of Alzheimer's disease (AD) targeted neurons in these areas. In some hippocampal neurons of AD patients, this antigen colocalizes with ALZ-50, indicating the presence of AD pathology in these neurons. Molecular characterization of the 3F12 cDNA revealed it to be a member of the MAP kinase family, showing 43% amino acid sequence identity to human extracellular related kinase 2 (p42mapk). We have confirmed that p493F12 kinase autophosphorylates both threonine and tyrosine residues, as expected for a MAP kinase. The p49 mRNA is expressed exclusively in the nervous system. In the brain, the distribution of these neurons closely corresponds to 3F12 antigen-bearing neurons. The p493F12 gene maps to the human chromosome 21q21 region, a region that may be important in the pathogenesis of AD and Down's syndrome.
Apart from T helper (Th)-2 cells, T follicular helper (Tfh) cells are a major class of IL-4-producing T cells, required for regulation of type 2 humoral immunity; however, transcriptional control of IL-4 production in Tfh cells remains mainly unknown. Here, we show that the basic leucine zipper transcription factor ATF-like, Batf is important for IL-4 expression in Tfh cells rather than in canonical Th2 cells. Functionally, Batf in cooperation with interferon regulatory factor (IRF) 4 along with Stat3 and Stat6 trigger IL-4 production in Tfh cells by directly binding to and activation of the CNS2 region in the IL-4 locus. In addition, Batf-to-c-Maf signalling is an important determinant of IL-4 expression in Tfh cells. Batf deficiency impairs the generation of IL-4-producing Tfh cells that results in protection against allergic asthma. Our results thus indicate a positive role of Batf in promoting the generation of pro-allergic IL-4-producing Tfh cells.
Mice without the basic leucine zipper transcription factor, ATF-like (BATF) gene (Batf(-/-)) lack TH17 and follicular helper T cells, which demonstrates that Batf is a transcription factor important for T- and B-cell differentiation.
In this study we examined whether BATF expression would influence allergic asthma.
In a cohort of preschool control children and children with asthma, we analyzed BATF mRNA expression using real-time PCR in PBMCs. In a murine model of allergic asthma, we analyzed differences in this allergic disease between wild-type, Batf transgenic, and Batf(-/-) mice.
In the absence of corticosteroid treatment, children with recurrent asthma have a significant increase in BATF mRNA expression in their PBMCs. Batf(-/-) mice display a significant reduction in the pathophysiologic responses seen in asthmatic wild-type littermates. Moreover, we discovered a decrease in IL-3 production and IL-3-dependent mast cell development in Batf(-/-) mice. By contrast, IFN-γ was induced in lung CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells. Intranasal delivery of anti-IFN-γ antibodies induced airway hyperresponsiveness and inflammation in wild-type but not in Batf(-/-) mice. Transgenic overexpression of Batf under the control of the CD2 promoter/enhancer augmented lung inflammation and IgE levels in the setting of experimental asthma.
BATF is increased in non-steroid-treated asthmatic children. Targeting BATF expression resulted in amelioration of the pathophysiologic responses seen in children with allergic asthma, and BATF has emerged as a novel target for antiasthma interventions.
The phenotype and function of liver dendritic cells (LDCs) are poorly understood. This Snapshot summarizes our current knowledge on LDCs in the healthy and injured liver, and their role in fibrosis progression and reversal. It also draws attention to various pitfalls in the current experimental design and conclusions based on available data.
Recent work has identified a new subset of CD4(+) T cells named as Tfh cells that are localized in germinal centers and critical in germinal center formation. Tfh cell differentiation is regulated by IL-6 and IL-21, possibly via STAT3 factor, and B cell lymphoma 6 (Bcl6) is specifically expressed in Tfh cells and required for their lineage specification. In the current study, we characterized the role of STAT5 in Tfh cell development. We found that a constitutively active form of STAT5 effectively inhibited Tfh differentiation by suppressing the expression of Tfh-associated factors (CXC motif) receptor 5 (CXCR5), musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma (c-Maf), Bcl6, basic leucine zipper transcription factor ATF-like (Batf), and IL-21, and STAT5 deficiency greatly enhanced Tfh gene expression. Importantly, STAT5 regulated the expression of Tfh cell suppressor factor B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein 1 (Blimp-1); STAT5 deficiency impaired Blimp-1 expression and resulted in elevated expression of Tfh-specific genes. Similarly, inhibition of IL-2 potentiated Tfh generation, associated with dampened Blimp-1 expression; Blimp-1 overexpression inhibited Tfh gene expression in Stat5-deficient T cells, suggesting that the IL-2/STAT5 axis functions to regulate Blimp-1 expression. In vivo, deletion of STAT5 in CD4(+) T cells resulted in enhanced development of Tfh cells and germinal center B cells and led to an impairment of B cell tolerance in a well defined mouse tolerance model. Taken together, this study demonstrates that STAT5 controls Tfh differentiation.
Expression controls of the carbon acquisition system in marine diatoms in response to environmental factors are an essential issue to understand the changes in marine primary productivity. A pyrenoidal β-carbonic anhydrase, PtCA1, is one of the most important candidates to investigate the control mechanisms of the CO(2) acquisition system in the marine diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum. A detailed functional assay was carried out on the putative core regulatory region of the ptca1 promoter using a β-glucuronidase reporter in P. tricornutum cells under changing CO(2) conditions. A set of loss-of-function assays led to the identification of three CO(2)-responsive elements, TGACGT, ACGTCA, and TGACGC, at a region -86 to -42 relative to the transcription start site. Treatment with a cyclic (c)AMP analog, dibutyryl cAMP, revealed these three elements to be under the control of cAMP; thus, we designated them, from 5' to 3', as CO(2)-cAMP-Responsive Element1 (CCRE1), CCRE2, and CCRE3. Because the sequence TGACGT is known to be a typical target of human Activating Transcription Factor6 (ATF6), we searched for genes containing a basic zipper (bZIP) region homologous to that of ATF6 in the genome of P. tricornutum. Gel-shift assays using CCRE pentamers as labeled probes showed that at least one candidate of bZIP proteins, PtbZIP11, bound specifically to CCREs. A series of gain-of-function assays with CCREs fused to a minimal promoter strongly suggested that the alternative combination of CCRE1/2 or CCRE2/3 at proper distances from the minimal promoter is required as a potential target of PtbZIP11 for an effective CO(2) response of the ptca1 gene.
CD8(+) T cells in chronic viral infections such as HIV develop functional defects including loss of interleukin-2 (IL-2) secretion and decreased proliferative potential that are collectively termed 'exhaustion'. Exhausted T cells express increased amounts of multiple inhibitory receptors, such as programmed death-1 (PD-1), that contribute to impaired virus-specific T cell function. Although reversing PD-1 inhibition is therefore an attractive therapeutic strategy, the cellular mechanisms by which PD-1 ligation results in T cell inhibition are not fully understood. PD-1 is thought to limit T cell activation by attenuating T cell receptor (TCR) signaling. It is not known whether PD-1 also acts by upregulating genes in exhausted T cells that impair their function. Here we analyzed gene expression profiles from HIV-specific CD8(+) T cells in individuals with HIV and show that PD-1 coordinately upregulates a program of genes in exhausted CD8(+) T cells from humans and mice. This program includes upregulation of basic leucine transcription factor, ATF-like (BATF), a transcription factor in the AP-1 family. Enforced expression of BATF was sufficient to impair T cell proliferation and cytokine secretion, whereas BATF knockdown reduced PD-1 inhibition. Silencing BATF in T cells from individuals with chronic viremia rescued HIV-specific T cell function. Thus, inhibitory receptors can cause T cell exhaustion by upregulating genes--such as BATF--that inhibit T cell function. Such genes may provide new therapeutic opportunities to improve T cell immunity to HIV.
In this report we described the isolation of transcription factor E4BP4 by lambda gt11 expression cloning using a probe containing the CRE/ATF-like sequence located between -2764 bp and -2753 bp in the upstream regulatory region for the human IL-1 beta gene. DNaseI protection, gel mobility shift analysis, and cotransfection studies were performed to investigate the binding and functional properties of E4BP4 using IL-1 beta promoter sequences. By DNaseI footprinting, a protection pattern was generated over the CRE/ATF-like site and the flanking sequences by bacterially produced E4BP4. Competition experiment by gel shift assay indicated that E4BP4 bound specifically to CRE/ATF-like site, not NF kappa B-like site. In cotransfection studies, E4BP4 repressed promoter activity and this repression was mediated through the CRE/ATF-like site. Mutational analysis of E4BP4 suggested that the DNA binding as well as repression activities required leucine heptad repeat domain. Analysis of E4BP4 produced in Escherichia coli and Sf9 cells infected with recombinant baculovirus indicated that baculovirus produced protein showed enhanced binding to the CRE/ATF-like site compared to the E. coli-produced protein. Analysis of posttranslational modifications indicated that E4BP4 produced in Sf9 cells was phosphorylated and this phosphorylation was important for the DNA binding activity of E4BP4.
The bovine leukemia virus transactivator, BLV Tax, augments transcription from three imperfect 21-bp repeats in the viral transcriptional regulatory region. Each BLV 21-bp repeat contains a cAMP response element (CRE) in the center and unique 5' and 3' neighboring sequences which are crucial for the transcriptional activation by BLV Tax. Here we describe the interactions of recombinant BLV Tax with cellular bZip proteins. The recombinant BLV Tax, tagged at the carboxy terminus with a hexahistidine extension, was prepared by solubilization in 6 M guanidine hydrochloride and renaturation on the Ni(2+)-chelating Sepharose gel matrix. The renatured BLV TaxH6 activates the BLV LTR when introduced into HeLa cells by scrape loading. Furthermore, the purified BLV TaxH6 enhances binding of members of the CREB/ATF family of bZip proteins to CRE motifs by interacting with their bZip domains in vitro. Chemical cross-linking indicates that dimerization of bZip proteins such as CREB becomes greatly facilitated in the presence of BLV Tax. These results suggest that BLV Tax interacts directly with CREB/ATF-like factors to activate viral mRNA transcription.
Apoptosis has been postulated to play an important role during feline infectious peritonitis virus (FIPV) infection; however, its mechanism is not well characterized. This study is focused on apoptosis and transcriptional profiling of FIPV-infected cells following in vitro infection of CRFK cells with FIPV 79-1146 WSU. Flow cytometry was used to determine mode of cell death in first 42 h post infection (hpi). FIPV infected cells underwent early apoptosis at 9 hpi (p < 0.05) followed by late apoptosis at 12 hpi (p < 0.05) and necrosis from 24 hpi (p < 0.05). Then, next generation sequencing was performed on 9 hpi and control uninfected cells by Illumina analyzer. An aggregate of 4546 genes (2229 down-regulated and 2317 up-regulated) from 17 cellular process, 11 molecular functions and 130 possible biological pathways were affected by FIPV. 131 genes from apoptosis cluster (80 down-regulated and 51 up-regulated) along with increase of apoptosis, p53, p38 MAPK, VEGF and chemokines/cytokines signaling pathways were probably involved in apoptosis process. Six of the de-regulated genes expression (RASSF1, BATF2, MAGEB16, PDCD5, TNFα and TRAF2) and TNFα protein concentration were analyzed by RT-qPCR and ELISA, respectively, at different time-points. Up-regulations of both pro-apoptotic (i.e. PDCD5) and anti-apoptotic (i.e. TRAF2) were detected from first hpi and continuing to deregulate during apoptosis process in the infected cells.
The family members Batf, Batf2 and Batf3 belong to a class of transcription factors containing basic leucine zipper domains that regulate various immunological functions and control the development and differentiation of immune cells. Functional studies by others demonstrated a predominant role for Batf in controlling Th2 cell functions and lineage development of T lymphocytes as well as a critical role of Batf, Batf2 and Batf3 in CD8α+dendritic cell development. Moreover, Batf family member expression was measured in a vast collection of mouse and human cell types by cap analysis gene expression (CAGE), a recent developed sequencing technology, showing reasonable expression spectrum in immune cells consistent with previously published expression profiles. Batf and Batf3 were highly expressed in lymphocytes and the earlier moderately expressed in myeloid lineages. Batf2 was predominantly expressed in monocytes/macrophages. Functional studies in mice demonstrated that Batf2 has a central role in macrophage activation by regulating inflammatory responses during lipopolysaccharides stimulation and mycobacterial infection. Hence, Batf2 could be used as a biomarker and a potential host directed drug target in tuberculosis. Moreover, Batf2 act as a tumor suppressor gene and augmenting Batf2 in malignant cells might be an encouraging therapeutic treatment against cancer.
BATF2 has been found to be decreased in a variety of human malignancies, while its clinical significance and functional roles in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remain unknown. Herein, the aim of this study was to investigate the expression pattern and to explore the potential functions of BATF2 in ESCC tissues and cell lines. BATF2 mRNA and protein expression levels in human tissues and human ESCC cell lines were evaluated by quantitative real‑time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), western blotting (WB) and immunohistochemical (IHC) analyses. BATF2 was upregulated by transfection of the pcDNA3.1‑BATF2 plasmid into KYSE-410 cells. MTT and Transwell assays were used to investigate the effects of BATF2 on cellular proliferation and invasion. Survival curves were plotted using Kaplan-Meier plots and log-rank tests. Cox's proportional hazards regression model was used to analyze univariate and multivariate survival. The results showed that, compared to the matched non-tumor tissues from 36 ESCC patients, 80.56% (29/36) of the tumor tissues presented downregulation of BATF2 by WB analysis (P<0.001). The results of IHC in 104 patients who underwent surgery for ESCC showed that the expression of BATF2 was closely related to tumor differentiation (P=0.023) and lymph node metastasis (P=0.027), while there was no significant correlation with age (P=0.574), gender (P=0.357), tumor location (P=0.721) and TNM stage (P=0.126) of the patients. Pathological grade (P=0.027), clinical stage (P=0.000), lymph node metastasis (P=0.002) and BATF2 expression (P=0.028) were identified as independent prognostic factors for overall survival (OS). In the in vitro studies, upregulation of BATF2 expression significantly inhibited the proliferation and invasive ability of the human ESCC KYSE-410 cells. In conclusion, as a tumor suppressor, BATF2 serves as a prognostic biomarker of ESCC and it may be a potential therapeutic target for ESCC treatment.
Basic leucine zipper transcription factor Batf2 is poorly described, whereas Batf and Batf3 have been shown to play essential roles in dendritic cell, T cell, and B cell development and regulation. Batf2 was drastically induced in IFN-γ-activated classical macrophages (M1) compared with unstimulated or IL-4-activated alternative macrophages (M2). Batf2 knockdown experiments from IFN-γ-activated macrophages and subsequent expression profiling demonstrated important roles for regulation of immune responses, inducing inflammatory and host-protective genes Tnf, Ccl5, and Nos2. Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Beijing strain HN878)-infected macrophages further induced Batf2 and augmented host-protective Batf2-dependent genes, particularly in M1, whose mechanism was suggested to be mediated through both TLR2 and TLR4 by LPS and heat-killed HN878 (HKTB) stimulation experiments. Irf1 binding motif was enriched in the promoters of Batf2-regulated genes. Coimmunoprecipitation study demonstrated Batf2 association with Irf1. Furthermore, Irf1 knockdown showed downregulation of IFN-γ- or LPS/HKTB-activated host-protective genes Tnf, Ccl5, Il12b, and Nos2. Conclusively, Batf2 is an activation marker gene for M1 involved in gene regulation of IFN-γ-activated classical macrophages, as well as LPS/HKTB-induced macrophage stimulation, possibly by Batf2/Irf1 gene induction. Taken together, these results underline the role of Batf2/Irf1 in inducing inflammatory responses in M. tuberculosis infection.
To investigate the expression and clinical significance of BATF2 in the oral tongue squamous cell carcinoma (OTSCC).
Expression of BATF2 mRNA and protein in 16 paired OTSCC tissues and adjacent non-tumor mucosa were examined using quantitative PCR, western blotting analysis and immunohistochemistry assays, and the relation between BATF2 expression and clinical pathologic factor and prognosis was analyzed.
In 16 paired tissues, expression of BATF2 mRNA in 13 OTSCC tissues and expression of BATF2 protein in 14 OTSCC tissues were significantly lower than that in adjacent non-tumor mucosa. In 202 paraffin-embedded OTSCC samples, BATF2 was not expressed in 20 cases (9.9%), low expressed in 104 cases (51.5%) and highly expressed in 78 (38.6%). BATF2 expression level was significantly correlated with histological differentiation (P = 0.002). Patients with low BATF2 expression had significantly poorer overall survival and disease-free survival than those with high BATF2 expression (P < 0.001).
BATF2 was low expressed in OTSCC and related to tumor differentiation and prognosis and may serve as a prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for this disease.
BATF2, a novel IFN-stimulated gene, inhibits tumor cell proliferation, invasion, and migration. The objectives of this study were to determine how BATF2 expression is associated with colorectal cancer progression and patient outcome, to investigate how BATF2 overexpression inhibits hepatocyte growth factor (HGF)/MET signaling, and to elucidate the rationale for combining MET inhibitors with IFN.
BATF2 expression in colorectal cancer tissues was determined and correlated with colorectal cancer patient prognosis. Cultured colorectal cancer cells were used to investigate the effects of BATF2 overexpression on the malignant phenotype of colorectal cancer cells and HGF/MET signaling. Tumor xenograft models were used to validate the effects of BATF2 on colorectal cancer xenograft growth and assess the efficacy of the combination of MET inhibitors with IFNs in colorectal cancer.
In colorectal cancer tissues, BATF2 was found to be significantly downregulated, and its expression negatively correlated with MET expression. Decreased BATF2 expression was associated with progression and shorter patient survival in colorectal cancer. BATF2 overexpression promoted apoptosis and inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion in colorectal cancer cells, as well as dramatically blunted tumor xenograft growth. In addition, MET inhibitors in combination with IFNβ produced synergistic cytotoxicity both in vitro and in vivo.
Together, these novel findings suggest that BATF2, a tumor suppressor gene, is a potent negative regulator of HGF/MET signaling in colorectal cancer and may serve as a prognostic tumor marker. Furthermore, these results provide a rationale for combining MET inhibitors with IFNs in preclinical trials.
Signal integration between IFNγ and TLRs in immune cells has been associated with the host defense against pathogens and injury, with a predominant role of STAT1. We hypothesize that STAT1-dependent transcriptional changes in vascular cells involved in cross-talk between IFNγ and TLR4, reflect pro-atherogenic responses in human atherosclerosis. Genome-wide investigation identified a set of STAT1-dependent genes that were synergistically affected by interactions between IFNγ and TLR4 in VSMCs. These included the chemokines Cxcl9, Ccl12, Ccl8, Ccrl2, Cxcl10 and Ccl5, adhesion molecules Cd40, Cd74, and antiviral and antibacterial genes Rsad2, Mx1, Oasl1, Gbp5, Nos2, Batf2 and Tnfrsf11a. Among the amplified genes was also Irf8, of which Ccl5 was subsequently identified as a new pro-inflammatory target in VSMCs and ECs. Promoter analysis predicted transcriptional cooperation between STAT1, IRF1, IRF8 and NFκB, with the novel role of IRF8 providing an additional layer to the overall complexity. The synergistic interactions between IFNγ and TLR4 also resulted in increased T-cell migration and impaired aortic contractility in a STAT1-dependent manner. Expression of the chemokines CXCL9 and CXCL10 correlated with STAT1 phosphorylation in vascular cells in plaques from human carotid arteries. Moreover, using data mining of human plaque transcriptomes, expression of a selection of these STAT1-dependent pro-atherogenic genes was found to be increased in coronary artery disease (CAD) and carotid atherosclerosis. Our study provides evidence to suggest that in ECs and VSMCs STAT1 orchestrates a platform for cross-talk between IFNγ and TLR4, and identifies a STAT1-dependent gene signature that reflects a pro-atherogenic state in human atherosclerosis.
BATF2, also called SARI, is associated with several cancer types, and loss of BATF2 expression is frequently detected in aggressive and metastatic cancers. The expression of BATF2 was previously shown to slow the growth rate of malignant tumor cells injected into athymic nude mice, and decreased expression of BATF2 has been correlated to poor prognosis in hepatocellular carcinoma. However, the functional role of BATF2 in oral tongue squamous cell carcinoma (OTSCC) remains unknown. In the present study, we examined BATF2 expression in 16 fresh, paired OTSCC and adjacent non-tumor tissues, as well as in a normal tongue epithelial cell line and in 5 OTSCC cell lines by quantitative PCR and western blot analysis. We also evaluated BATF2 expression in 202 paraffin‑embedded OTSCC and 30 adjacent non-tumor samples by immunohistochemistry, and its relationship with clinicopathological features and prognosis was investigated. We found that BATF2 expression was significantly reduced in the majority of the 16 OTSCC tumor tissues and the 5 OTSCC cell lines when compared with the non-tumor tissues and the normal tongue epithelial cell line, respectively. Consistent with these results, our immunohistochemistry analysis revealed that decreased BATF2 expression was present in 124 of the 202 cases and was significantly correlated with poor tumor differentiation (P=0.002). Patients with decreased BATF2 expression showed reduced survival when compared to those with high expression (P<0.001). Multivariate analysis revealed that BATF2 expression is an independent predictor of overall survival (P=0.001). These results demonstrate that BATF2 plays a tumor-suppressor role in the development of OTSCC and that BATF2 may serve as a prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for this disease.
Basic leucine zipper transcription factor ATF-like (BATF), BATF2 and BATF3 belong to the activator protein 1 (AP-1) family of transcription factors, which regulate numerous cellular processes. Initially, BATF family members were thought to function only as inhibitors of AP-1-driven transcription, but recent studies have uncovered that these factors have unique, non-redundant and positive transcriptional activities in dendritic cells, B cells and T cells. The question of how BATF and BATF3 - which lack a transcriptional activation domain, unlike the AP-1 factors FOS and JUN - can exert unique positive transcriptional specificity has now been answered by the discovery that BATF molecules interact with members of the interferon-regulatory factor (IRF) family. The capacity of the BATF leucine zipper regions to mediate dimerization with AP-1 factors and also to define cooperative interactions with heterologous factors explains both the positive transcriptional activity of BATF proteins and how they activate distinct sets of target genes compared with FOS.
The SARI (suppressor of AP-1, regulated by IFN) gene, which is also called BATF2, is associated with the risk of several kinds of cancer, and loss of SARI expression is frequently detected in aggressive and metastatic cancer. However, the functional role of SARI in lung adenocarcinoma remains unknown. We have shown that loss of SARI expression initiates epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), which is visualized by repression of E-cadherin and up-regulation of vimentin in lung adenocarcinoma cell lines and in clinical lung adenocarcinoma specimens. Using a human lung xenograft-mouse model, we observed that knocking down endogenous SARI in human carcinoma cells leads to the development of multiple lymph node metastases. Moreover, we showed that SARI functions as a critical protein in regulating EMT by modulating the (GSK)-3β-β-catenin signaling pathway. These results demonstrate the mechanism of SARI function in EMT and suggest that assessment of SARI may serve as a prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for lung adenocarcinoma metastasis.
The AP1 transcription factor Batf3 is required for homeostatic development of CD8α(+) classical dendritic cells that prime CD8 T-cell responses against intracellular pathogens. Here we identify an alternative, Batf3-independent pathway in mice for CD8α(+) dendritic cell development operating during infection with intracellular pathogens and mediated by the cytokines interleukin (IL)-12 and interferon-γ. This alternative pathway results from molecular compensation for Batf3 provided by the related AP1 factors Batf, which also functions in T and B cells, and Batf2 induced by cytokines in response to infection. Reciprocally, physiological compensation between Batf and Batf3 also occurs in T cells for expression of IL-10 and CTLA4. Compensation among BATF factors is based on the shared capacity of their leucine zipper domains to interact with non-AP1 factors such as IRF4 and IRF8 to mediate cooperative gene activation. Conceivably, manipulating this alternative pathway of dendritic cell development could be of value in augmenting immune responses to vaccines.
Polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) synthesis regulatory protein PhaR contains a DNA binding domain (DBD) and a PHA granule binding domain (GBD), it anchors to the promoter region of PHA granule-associated protein (PhaP) to repress phaP expression. However, PhaR will bind to PHB granules and be released from phaP promoter region when PHA granules are formed in vivo, initiating expression of phaP gene. Based on this regulatory mechanism, a bacterial two-hybrid system was developed: PhaR was separated into two parts: DBD was used to fuse with the bait, GBD with the prey, and phaP was replaced by a reporter gene lacZ. However, GBD protein expressed in vivo formed inclusion bodies. Thus, PhaP with strong binding ability to PHB granules was employed to replace GBD.
Three model interaction partners bFos, bJun and bATF2 were used to study the feasibility of this bacterial two-hybrid system compared with the controls lacking one or more essential elements of this system. Results showed that bFos, bJun and bATF2 bound tightly in pairs to allow strong expression of β-galactosidase in different expression levels. In contrast, very weak β-galactosidase activity was detected in all control groups.
β-Galactosidase activity level precisely correlated with the interaction force of tested protein pairs, and very weak β-galactosidase expression was detected throughout the control groups, which demonstrated the feasibility of this system for studying protein interactions.
Human BATF2, a basic leucine zipper protein, was recently detected in several normal immortalized cell lines but not in transformed cell lines. In addition, the expression of BATF2 also slowed the growth rate of malignant tumor cells injected into athymic nude mice. In this study, to study the role of BATF2 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), we examined BATF2 expression in 50 paired HCC tumorous and nontumorous tissues, as well as in five HCC cell lines. Moreover, BATF2 expression in 114 HCC patients was evaluated using immunohistochemistry, and its relationship with clinicopathological parameters and prognosis was investigated. We found that BATF2 expression was significantly reduced in most HCC tumorous tissues, when compared with nontumorous tissues, as well as in the five HCC cell lines. Consistent with these results, the immunohistochemistry revealed that decreased BATF2 expression was present in 63 of the 114 cases and was significantly correlated with age (p = 0.006), tumor size (p = 0.046) and tumor differentiation (p = 0.030). Patients with negative BATF2 expression showed a shorter survival than those with positive expression (p = 0.016). Multivariate analysis revealed that BATF2 expression was an independent predictor of overall survival (p = 0.015). All the data support the hypothesis that BATF2 plays an important role in the progression of HCC and that it may work as a candidate tumor suppressor and a prognostic marker as well as a potential target for treatment.
After surgical resection of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), recurrence is common, especially in patients presenting with vascular invasion or multifocal disease after curative surgery. Consequently, we examined the expression pattern and prognostic value of miR-19b in samples from these patients.
We performed a miRNA microarray to detect differential expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) in 5 paired samples of HCC and non-tumoral adjacent liver tissue and a quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis to validate the results in 81 paired samples of HCC and adjacent non-tumoral liver tissues. We examined the associations of miR-19b expression with clinicopathological parameters and survival. MiR-19b was knocked down in Hep3B and an mRNA microarray was performed to detect the affected genes.
In both the miRNA microarray and real-time PCR, miR-19b was significantly overexpressed in the HCC tumor compared with adjacent non-tumor liver tissues (P < 0.001). The expression of miR-19b was significantly higher in patients who were disease-free 2 years after surgery (P < 0.001). High miR-19b expression levels were associated with higher α-fetoprotein levels (P = 0.017). In the log-rank test, high miR-19b was associated with better disease-free survival (median survival 37.107 vs. 11.357; P = 0.022). In Cox multivariate analysis, high miR-19b predicted better disease-free survival and overall survival (hazards ratio [HR] = 0.453, 95 % confidence interval [CI] = 0.245-0.845, P = 0.013; HR = 0.318, CI = 0.120-0.846, P = 0.022, respectively). N-myc downstream regulated 1 (NDRG1) was downregulated, while epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EPCAM), hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1A), high-mobility group protein B2 (HMGB2), and mitogen activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14) were upregulated when miR-19b was knocked down in Hep3B.
The overexpression of miR-19b was significantly correlated with better disease-free and overall survival in patients with HCC presenting with vascular invasion or multifocal disease after curative surgery. MiR-19b may influence the expression of NDRG1, EPCAM, HMGB2, HIF1A, and MAPK14.
Coronin proteins are known as regulators of actin-based cellular processes, and some of them are associated with the malignant progression of human cancer. Here, we show that expression of coronin 2A is up-regulated in human colon carcinoma.
This study included 26 human colon tumour specimens and 9 normal controls. Expression and localisation of coronin 2A was studied by immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence imaging, cell fractionation, and immunoblotting. Functional roles of coronin 2A were analysed by over-expression and knock-down of the protein. Protein interactions were studied by co-immunoprecipitation and pull-down experiments, mass spectrometry analyses, and in vitro kinase and methylation assays.
Histopathological investigation revealed that the expression of coronin 2A in colon tumour cells is up-regulated during the adenoma-adenocarcinoma progression. At the subcellular level, coronin 2A localised to multiple compartments, i.e. F-actin stress fibres, the front of lamellipodia, focal adhesions, and the nuclei. Over-expression of coronin 2A led to a reduction of F-actin stress fibres and elevated cell migration velocity. We identified two novel direct coronin 2A interaction partners. The interaction of coronin 2A with MAPK14 (mitogen activated protein kinase 14 or MAP kinase p38α) led to phosphorylation of coronin 2A and also to activation of the MAPK14 pathway. Moreover, coronin 2A interacted with PRMT5 (protein arginine N-methyltransferase 5), which modulates the sensitivity of tumour cells to TRAIL-induced cell death.
We show that increased expression of coronin 2A is associated with the malignant phenotype of human colon carcinoma. Moreover, we linked coronin 2A to MAPK14 and PRMT5 signalling pathways involved in tumour progression.
The mechanisms leading to the cell fate decision between apoptosis and senescence upon DNA damage are still unclear and have stochastic features. Cellular oxidative stress can generate DNA damage and activate the important mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (p38MAPK) that is involved in pathologies like Alzheimer's disease. Based on experimental evidence we propose a simple network that might operate at the core of the cell control machinery for the choice between apoptosis and senescence involving the cross-talk between p38MAPK, the tumor suppressor protein p53 and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (p16INK4a). We have performed two types of analyses, deterministic and stochastic, exploring the system's parameter space, in the first, we calculated the fixed points of the deterministic model and, in the second, we numerically integrated the master equation for the stochastic version. The model shows a variety of behaviors dependent on the parameters including states of high expression levels of p53 or p16INK4a that can be associated with an apoptotic or senescent phenotype, respectively, in agreement with experimental data. In addition, we observe both monostable and bistable behavior (where bistability is a phenomenon in which two stable steady states coexist for a fixed set of control parameter values) which here we suggest to be involved in the cell fate decision problem.
Previously, it has to be acknowledged that overexpressed heat shock protein B27 (HSPB27) have been implicated in the etiology of wide range of human cancers. However, the molecular mechanism leading to the disease initiation to progression in liver cancer is still unknown. Present work was undertaken to investigate the differentially expressed HSPB27 in association with those damages that lead to liver cancer development. For the identification of liver cancer biomarker, samples were subjected to comparative proteomic analysis using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) and were further validated by Western blot and immunohistochemical analysis. After validation, in silico studies were applied to demonstrate the significantly induced phosphorylated and S-nitrosylated signals. The later included the interacting partner of HSPB27, i.e., mitogen-activated protein kinase-3 and 5 (MAPK3 and 5), ubiquitin C (UBC), v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (AKT1), mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14), and tumor protein p53 (TP53), which bestowed with critical capabilities, namely, apoptosis, cell cycling, stress activation, tumor suppression, cell survival, angiogenesis, proliferation, and stress resistance. Taking together, these results shed new light on the potential biomarker HSPB27 that overexpression of HSPB27 did lead to upregulation of their interacting partner that together demonstrate their possible role as a novel tumor progressive agent for the treatment of metastasis in liver cancer. HSPB27 is a promising diagnostic marker for liver cancer although further large-scale studies are required. Also, molecular profiling may help pave the road to the discovery of new therapies.
This study investigated fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21)-mediated cardiac protection against apoptosis caused by diabetic lipotoxicity and explored the protective mechanisms involved.
Cardiac Fgf21 mRNA expression was examined in a diabetic mouse model using real-time PCR. After pre-incubation of palmitate-treated cardiac H9c2 cells and primary cardiomyocytes with FGF21 for 15 h, apoptosis and Fgf21-induced cell-survival signalling were investigated using small interfering (si)RNA and/or pharmacological inhibitors. We also examined the cardiac apoptotic signalling and structural and functional indices in wild-type and Fgf21-knockout (Fgf21-KO) diabetic mice.
In a mouse model of type 1 diabetes, cardiac Fgf21 expression was upregulated about 40-fold at 2 months and 3-1.5-fold at 4 and 6 months after diabetes. FGF21 significantly reduced palmitate-induced cardiac apoptosis. Mechanistically, palmitate downregulated, but FGF21 upregulated, phosphorylation levels of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2, mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (p38 MAPK) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Inhibition of each kinase with its inhibitor and/or siRNA revealed that FGF21 prevents palmitate-induced cardiac apoptosis via upregulating the ERK1/2-dependent p38 MAPK-AMPK signalling pathway. In vivo administration of FGF21, but not FGF21 plus ERK1/2 inhibitor, to diabetic or fatty-acid-infused mice significantly prevented cardiac apoptosis and reduced inactivation of ERK1/2, p38 MAPK and AMPK and prevented cardiac remodelling and dysfunction. The Fgf21-KO mice were more susceptible to diabetes-induced cardiac apoptosis, and this could be prevented by administration of FGF21. Deletion of Fgf21 did not further exacerbate cardiac dysfunction.
These results demonstrate that FGF21 prevents lipid- or diabetes-induced cardiac apoptosis by activating the ERK1/2-p38 MAPK-AMPK pathway. FGF21 may be a therapeutic target for the treatment of diabetes-related cardiac damage.
Dual-specificity phosphatase (DUSP) 1 dephosphorylates and inactivates members of the MAPK superfamily, in particular, JNKs, p38α, and p38β MAPKs. It functions as an essential negative regulator of innate immune responses, hence disruption of the Dusp1 gene renders mice extremely sensitive to a wide variety of experimental inflammatory challenges. The principal mechanisms behind the overexpression of inflammatory mediators by Dusp1(-/-) cells are not known. In this study, we use a genetic approach to identify an important mechanism of action of DUSP1, involving the modulation of the activity of the mRNA-destabilizing protein tristetraprolin. This mechanism is key to the control of essential early mediators of inflammation, TNF, CXCL1, and CXCL2, as well as the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. The same mechanism also contributes to the regulation of a large number of transcripts induced by treatment of macrophages with LPS. These findings demonstrate that modulation of the phosphorylation status of tristetraprolin is an important physiological mechanism by which innate immune responses can be controlled.
Although RIPK1 (receptor [TNFRSF]-interacting protein kinase 1) is emerging as a critical determinant of cell fate in response to cellular stress resulting from activation of death receptors and DNA damage, its potential role in cell response to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress remains undefined. Here we report that RIPK1 functions as an important prosurvival mechanism in melanoma cells undergoing pharmacological ER stress induced by tunicamycin (TM) or thapsigargin (TG) through activation of autophagy. While treatment with TM or TG upregulated RIPK1 and triggered autophagy in melanoma cells, knockdown of RIPK1 inhibited autophagy and rendered the cells sensitive to killing by TM or TG, recapitulating the effect of inhibition of autophagy. Consistently, overexpression of RIPK1 enhanced induction of autophagy and conferred resistance of melanoma cells to TM- or TG-induced cell death. Activation of MAPK8/JNK1 or MAPK9/JNK2, which phosphorylated BCL2L11/BIM leading to its dissociation from BECN1/Beclin 1, was involved in TM- or TG-induced, RIPK1-mediated activation of autophagy; whereas, activation of the transcription factor HSF1 (heat shock factor protein 1) downstream of the ERN1/IRE1-XBP1 axis of the unfolded protein response was responsible for the increase in RIPK1 in melanoma cells undergoing pharmacological ER stress. Collectively, these results identify upregulation of RIPK1 as an important resistance mechanism of melanoma cells to TM- or TG-induced ER stress by protecting against cell death through activation of autophagy, and suggest that targeting the autophagy-activating mechanism of RIPK1 may be a useful strategy to enhance sensitivity of melanoma cells to therapeutic agents that induce ER stress.
Selectins are glycan-binding adhesion molecules that mediate the initial steps of leukocyte recognition of endothelium. Cytokines control numerous aspects of CD4 Th cell differentiation, but how cytokines control the induction of ligands for E- and P-selectin on Th cell subsets remains poorly understood. Among 20 cytokines that affect Th cell differentiation, we identified six that induce expression of selectin ligands on murine CD4 T cells above the low levels associated with TCR engagement: IL-12, IL-18, IL-27, IL-9, IL-25, and TGF-β1. Collectively, these six cytokines could potentially account for selectin ligand expression on all of the currently defined nonsessile Th cell lineages, including Th1, Th2, Th9, and Th17 cells, as well as regulatory T cells. Induction of selectin ligand expression by each of these six cytokines was almost completely inhibited by pharmacologic inhibition of p38 MAPK, but not other MAPKs, or by conditional genetic deletion of p38α MAPK. Analysis of the expression of key glycosyltransferase genes revealed that p38α signaling was selectively required for induction of Fut7 and Gcnt1 but not for the induction of St3gal4 or St3gal6. Constitutively active MKK6, an immediate upstream activator of p38 MAPK, induced selectin ligand expression equivalent to that of cytokines, and this induction was completely dependent on the expression of p38α. Our results identify the repertoire of cytokines responsible for selectin ligand induction on CD4 T cells and provide a mechanistic link between Th cell development and T cell migration.
Host defense peptides have recently gained much interest as novel anti-infectives owing to their ability to kill bacteria and simultaneously modulate host cell responses. The cationic host defense peptide GKY25 (GKYGFYTHVFRLKKWIQKVIDQFGE), derived from the C terminus of human thrombin, inhibits proinflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo, but the mode of action is unclear. In this study, we show that GKY25, apart from binding bacterial LPS, also interacts directly with monocytes and macrophages in vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo. Moreover, GKY25 inhibits TLR4- and TLR2-induced NF-κB activation in response to several microbe-derived agonists. Furthermore, GKY25 reduces LPS-induced phosphorylation of MAPKs p38α and JNK1/2/3. FACS and electron microscopy analyses showed that GKY25 interferes with TLR4/myeloid differentiation protein-2 dimerization. The results demonstrate a previously undisclosed activity of the host defense peptide GKY25, based on combined LPS and cell interactions leading to inhibition of TLR4 dimerization and subsequent reduction of NF-κB activity and proinflammatory cytokine production in monocytes and macrophages.
Because p38α plays a critical role in inflammation, it has been an attractive target for the development of anti-inflammation therapeutics. However, p38α inhibitors showed side effects, including severe liver toxicity, that often prevailed over the benefits in clinical studies, and the mechanism of toxicity is not clear. In this study, we demonstrate that p38α regulates the inflammatory responses in acute liver inflammation in a tissue-specific manner, and liver toxicity by p38α inhibitors may be a result of the inhibition of protective activity of p38α in the liver. Genetic ablation of p38α in T and NKT cells protected mice from liver injury in Con A-induced liver inflammation, whereas liver-specific deletion of p38α aggravated liver pathology. We found that p38α deficiency in the liver increased the expression of chemokines to recruit more inflammatory cells, indicating that p38α in the liver plays a protective anti-inflammatory role during acute liver inflammation. Therefore, our results suggest that p38α regulates the inflammatory responses in a tissue-specific manner, and that the tissue-specific p38α targeting strategies can be used for the development of an effective anti-inflammation treatment with an improved side-effect profile.
Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) is a key epigenetic regulator that symmetrically dimethylates arginine residues on histones H3 and H4 to silence gene expression. PRMT5 is frequently observed in a complex with the cofactor methylosome protein 50 (MEP50), which is required for PRMT5 activity. PKCδ/p38δ signaling, a key controller of keratinocyte proliferation and differentiation, increases p21(Cip1) expression to suppress keratinocyte proliferation. We now show that MEP50 enhances keratinocyte proliferation and survival via mechanisms that include silencing of p21(Cip1) expression. This is associated with enhanced PRMT5-MEP50 interaction at the p21(Cip1) promoter and enhanced arginine dimethylation of the promoter-associated histones H3 and H4. It is also associated with a MEP50-dependent reduction in the level of p53, a key controller of p21(Cip1) gene expression. We confirm an important biological role for MEP50 and PRMT5 in regulating keratinocyte proliferation using a stratified epidermal equivalent model that mimics in vivo epidermal keratinocyte differentiation. In this model, PRMT5 or MEP50 knockdown results in reduced keratinocyte proliferation. We further show that PKCδ/p38δ signaling suppresses MEP50 expression, leading to reduced H3/H4 arginine dimethylation at the p21(Cip1) promoter, and that this is associated with enhanced p21(Cip1) expression and reduced cell proliferation. These findings describe an opposing action between PKCδ/p38δ MAPK signaling and PRMT5/MEP50 epigenetic silencing mechanisms in regulating cell proliferation.
Recent evidence suggests that colonic macrophages and microRNAs play important roles in motor activity in the gastrointestinal tract. However, there are almost no data concerning colonic macrophages and microRNAs in slow transit constipation.
The purpose of this study was to investigate colonic macrophages and microRNA-128 expression in the pathogenesis of slow transit constipation in colon tissues.
Full-thickness colonic specimens from patients undergoing surgery for slow transit constipation, due to refractoriness to other therapeutic interventions (n = 25), were compared to controls (n = 25), and the number of colonic macrophages (as evaluated by specific monoclonal antibodies) was counted. Gene expression analysis of microRNA-128 was performed by microRNA microarray and qRT-PCR. Lastly, bioinformatics analysis, coupled with luciferase reporter assays, was used to investigate the mRNA transcript(s) targeted by microRNA-128.
Compared to controls, 20 of 25 slow transit constipation patients (80 %) had significantly higher numbers of macrophages in colonic specimens, coupled with down-regulation of microRNA-128. Linear regression analyses showed a significant negative correlation between macrophage number and microRNA-128 expression level. Among 83 bioinformatically predicated candidates, mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (p38α) was validated to be a direct target of microRNA-128 in human intestinal epithelial cells.
This study presents evidence for the negative correlation of macrophage number and microRNA-128 expression, in slow transit constipation patients, representing a possible mechanism of impaired gastrointestinal motility.
To survive in macrophages, Coxiella burnetii hijacks the activation pathway of macrophages. Recently, we have demonstrated that C. burnetii, via its lipopolysaccharide (LPS), avoids the activation of p38α-MAPK through an antagonistic engagement of Toll-like receptor (TLR)-4. We investigated the fine-tuned mechanism leading to the absence of activation of the p38α-MAPK despite TLR-4 engagement. In macrophages challenged with LPS from the avirulent variants of C. burnetii, TLR-4 and TLR-2 co-immunoprecipitated. This association was absent in cells challenged by the LPS of pathogenic C. burnetii. The disruption makes TLRs unable to signal during the recognition of the LPS of pathogenic C. burnetii. The disruption of TLR-2 and TLR-4 was induced by the re-organization of the macrophage cytoskeleton by C. burnetii LPS. Interestingly, blocking the actin cytoskeleton re-organization relieved the disruption of the association TLR-2/TLR-4 by pathogenic C. burnetii and rescued the p38α-MAPK activation by C. burnetii. We elucidated an unexpected mechanism allowing pathogenic C. burnetii to avoid macrophage activation by the disruption of the TLR-2 and TLR-4 association.
DNA damage (single or double-strand breaks) triggers adapted cellular responses. These responses are elicited through signalling pathways, which activate cell cycle checkpoints and basically lead to three cellular fates: cycle arrest promoting DNA repair, senescence (permanent arrest) or cell death. Cellular senescence is known for having a tumour-suppressive function and its regulation arouses a growing scientific interest. Here, we advance a qualitative model covering DNA damage response pathways, focusing on G1/S checkpoint enforcement, supposedly more sensitive to arrest than G2/M checkpoint.
We define a discrete, logical model encompassing ATM (ataxia telangiectasia mutated) and ATR (ATM and Rad3-related) pathways activation upon DNA damage, as well as G1/S checkpoint main components. It also includes the stress responsive protein p38MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase 14) known to be involved in the regulation of senescence. The model has four outcomes that convey alternative cell fates: proliferation, (transient) cell cycle arrest, apoptosis and senescence. Different levels of DNA damage are considered, defined by distinct combinations of single and double-strand breaks. Each leads to a single stable state denoting the cell fate adopted upon this specific damage. A range of model perturbations corresponding to gene loss-of-function or gain-of-function is compared to experimental mutations.
As a step towards an integrative model of DNA-damage response pathways to better cover the onset of senescence, our model focuses on G1/S checkpoint enforcement. This model qualitatively agrees with most experimental observations, including experiments involving mutations. Furthermore, it provides some predictions.
The skeleton acts as an endocrine organ that regulates energy metabolism and calcium and phosphorous homeostasis through the secretion of osteocalcin (Oc) and fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23). However, evidence suggests that osteoblasts secrete additional unknown factors that contribute to the endocrine function of bone. To search for these additional factors, we generated mice with a conditional osteoblast-specific deletion of p38α MAPK known to display profound defects in bone homeostasis. Herein, we show that impaired osteoblast function is associated with a strong decrease in body weight and adiposity (P < 0.01). The differences in adiposity were not associated with diminished caloric intake, but rather reflected 20% increased energy expenditure and the up-regulation of uncoupling protein-1 (Ucp1) in white adipose tissue (WAT) and brown adipose tissue (BAT) (P < 0.05). These alterations in lipid metabolism and energy expenditure were correlated with a decrease in the blood levels of neuropeptide Y (NPY) (40% lower) rather than changes in the serum levels of insulin, Oc, or FGF23. Among all Npy-expressing tissues, only bone and primary osteoblasts showed a decline in Npy expression (P < 0.01). Moreover, the intraperitoneal administration of recombinant NPY partially restored the WAT weight and adipocyte size of p38α-deficient mice (P < 0.05). Altogether, these results further suggest that, in addition to Oc, other bone-derived signals affect WAT and energy expenditure contributing to the regulation of energy metabolism.
p38 MAPKs regulate migration and invasion. However, the mechanisms involved are only partially known. We had previously identified fibulin 3, which plays a role in migration, invasion, and tumorigenesis, as a gene regulated by p38α. We have characterized in detail how p38 MAPK regulates fibulin 3 expression and its role. We describe here for the first time that p38α, p38γ, and p38δ down-regulate fibulin 3 expression. p38α has a stronger effect, and it does so through hypermethylation of CpG sites in the regulatory sequences of the gene. This would be mediated by the DNA methylase, DNMT3A, which is down-regulated in cells lacking p38α, but once re-introduced represses Fibulin 3 expression. p38α through HuR stabilizes dnmt3a mRNA leading to an increase in DNMT3A protein levels. Moreover, by knocking-down fibulin 3, we have found that Fibulin 3 inhibits migration and invasion in MEFs by mechanisms involving p38α/β inhibition. Hence, p38α pro-migratory/invasive effect might be, at least in part, mediated by fibulin 3 down-regulation in MEFs. In contrast, in HCT116 cells, Fibulin 3 promotes migration and invasion through a mechanism dependent on p38α and/or p38β activation. Furthermore, Fibulin 3 promotes in vitro and in vivo tumor growth of HCT116 cells through a mechanism dependent on p38α, which surprisingly acts as a potent inducer of tumor growth. At the same time, p38α limits fibulin 3 expression, which might represent a negative feed-back loop.
In CNS lesions, "reactive astrocytes" form a prominent cellular response. However, the nature of this astrocyte immune activity is not well understood. In order to study astrocytic immune responses to inflammation and injury, we generated mice with conditional deletion of p38α (MAPK14) in GFAP+ astrocytes. We studied the role of p38α signaling in astrocyte immune activation both in vitro and in vivo, and simultaneously examined the effects of astrocyte activation in CNS inflammation. Our results showed that specific subsets of cytokines (TNFα, IL-6) and chemokines (CCL2, CCL4, CXCL1, CXCL2, CXCL10) are critically regulated by p38α signaling in astrocytes. In an in vivo CNS inflammation model of intracerebral injection of LPS, we observed markedly attenuated astrogliosis in conditional GFAPcre p38α(-/-) mice. However, GFAPcre p38α(-/-) mice showed marked upregulation of CCL2, CCL3, CCL4, CXCL2, CXCL10, TNFα, and IL-1β compared to p38αfl/fl cohorts, suggesting that in vivo responses to LPS after GFAPcre p38α deletion are complex and involve interactions between multiple cell types. This finding was supported by a prominent increase in macrophage/microglia and neutrophil recruitment in GFAPcre p38α(-/-) mice compared to p38αfl/fl controls. Together, these studies provide important insights into the critical role of p38α signaling in astrocyte immune activation.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced activation of TLR4 (toll-like receptor 4) is followed by a subsequent overwhelming inflammatory response, a hallmark of the first phase of sepsis. Therefore, counteracting excessive innate immunity by autophagy is important to contribute to the termination of inflammation. However, the exact molecular details of this interplay are only poorly understood. Here, we show that PELI3/Pellino3 (pellino E3 ubiquitin protein ligase family member 3), which is an E3 ubiquitin ligase and scaffold protein in TLR4-signaling, is impacted by autophagy in macrophages (MΦ) after LPS stimulation. We noticed an attenuated mRNA expression of proinflammatory Il1b (interleukin 1, β) in Peli3 knockdown murine MΦ in response to LPS treatment. The autophagy adaptor protein SQSTM1/p62 (sequestosome 1) emerged as a potential PELI3 binding partner in TLR4-signaling. siRNA targeting Sqstm1 and Atg7 (autophagy related 7), pharmacological inhibition of autophagy by wortmannin as well as blocking the lysosomal vacuolar-type H(+)-ATPase by bafilomycin A1 augmented PELI3 protein levels, while inhibition of the proteasome had no effect. Consistently, treatment to induce autophagy by MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin (serine/threonine kinase)) inhibition or starvation enhanced PELI3 degradation and reduced proinflammatory Il1b expression. PELI3 was found to be ubiquitinated upon LPS stimulation and point mutation of PELI3-lysine residue 316 (Lys316Arg) attenuated Torin2-dependent degradation of PELI3. Immunofluorescence analysis revealed that PELI3 colocalized with the typical autophagy markers MAP1LC3B/LC3B (microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 β) and LAMP2 (lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2). Our observations suggest that autophagy causes PELI3 degradation during TLR4-signaling, thereby impairing the hyperinflammatory phase during sepsis.
Sorafenib is the current standard treatment for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but its efficacy is modest with low response rates and short response duration. Predictive biomarkers for sorafenib efficacy are necessary. However, efforts to determine biomarkers for sorafenib have led only to potential candidates rather than clinically useful predictors. Studies based on patient cohorts identified the potential of blood levels of angiopoietin-2, hepatocyte growth factor, insulin-like growth factor-1, and transforming growth factor-β1 for predicting sorafenib efficacy. Alpha-fetoprotein response, dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging, and treatment-related side effects may serve as early surrogate markers. Novel approaches based on super-responders or experimental mouse models may provide new directions in biomarker research. These studies identified tumor amplification of FGF3/FGF4 or VEGFA and tumor expression of phospho-Mapk14 and phospho-Atf2 as possible predictive markers that await validation. A group effort that considers various prognostic factors and proper collection of tumor tissues before treatment is imperative for the success of future biomarker research in advanced HCC.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is the second leading cause of cancer-related death in men; however, the molecular mechanisms leading to its development and progression are not yet fully elucidated. Of note, it has been recently shown that conditional stk11 knockout mice develop atypical hyperplasia and prostate intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN). We recently reported an inverse correlation between the activity of the STK11/AMPK pathway and the MAPK/p38 cascade in HIF1A-dependent malignancies. Furthermore, MAPK/p38 overactivation was detected in benign prostate hyperplasia, PIN and PCa in mice and humans. Here we report that STK11 expression is significantly decreased in PCa compared to normal tissues. Moreover, STK11 protein levels decreased throughout prostate carcinogenesis. To get insight into the role of STK11-MAPK/p38 activity balance in PCa, we treated PCa cell lines and primary biopsies with a well-established MAPK14-MAPK11 inhibitor (SB202190), which has been extensively used in vitro and in vivo. Our results indicate that inhibition of MAPK/p38 significantly affects PCa cell survival in a STK11-dependent manner. Indeed, we found that pharmacologic inactivation of MAPK/p38 does not affect viability of STK11-proficient PCa cells due to the triggering of the AMPK-dependent autophagic pathway, while it induces apoptosis in STK11-deficient cells irrespective of androgen receptor (AR) status. Of note, AMPK inactivation or autophagy inhibition in STK11-proficient cells sensitize SB202190-treated PCa cells to apoptosis. On the other end, reconstitution of functional STK11 in STK11-deficient PCa cells abrogates apoptosis. Collectively, our data show that STK11 is a key factor involved in the early phases of prostate carcinogenesis, and suggest that it might be used as a predictive marker of therapeutic response to MAPK/p38 inhibitors in PCa patients.
The p38 kinases are one of the four subgroups of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) superfamily which are involved in the innate immunity. The p38 subfamily that includes four members namely p38α (MAPK14), p38β (MAPK11), p38γ (MAPK12) and p38δ (MAPK13), regulates the activation of several transcription factors. In this study, a p38β (OfMAPK11) homolog and a p38α (OfMAPK14) homolog of Oplegnathus fasciatus were identified at genomic level. Results clearly showed that both MAPK11 and MAPK14 are well-conserved at both genomic structural- and amino acid (aa)-levels. Genomic sequences of OfMAPK11 (∼15.6 kb) and OfMAPK14 (∼13.4 kb) had 12 exons. A comparison of exon-intron structural arrangement of these genes from different vertebrate lineages indicated that all the exon lengths are highly conserved, except their terminal exons. Full-length cDNAs of OfMAPK11 (3957 bp) and OfMAPK14 (2504 bp) encoded corresponding proteins of 361 aa and 360 aa, respectively. Both OfMAPK proteins harbored a Ser/Thr protein kinases catalytic domain (S_TKc domain) which includes an activation loop with a dual phosphorylation site (TGY motif) and several specific-binding sites for ATP and substrates. Molecular modeling of the activation loop and substrate binding sites of rock bream MAPKs revealed the conservation of crucial residues and their orientation in 3D space. Transcripts of OfMAPKs were ubiquitously detected in eleven tissues examined, however at different levels. The modulation of OfMAPKs' transcription upon pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs: flagellin, lipopolysaccharide and poly I:C) and pathogens (Edwardsiella tarda, Streptococcus iniae and rock bream iridovirus) was investigated. Among the seven examined tissues, the flagellin-challenge upregulated the mRNA level of both OfMAPKs in the head kidney. Meanwhile, modulation of OfMAPK mRNA expression in the liver upon other immune-challenges varied in a time-dependent manner. Collectively, these results suggest that OfMAPKs are true members of p38 subfamily, which might be induced by different immune stimuli.
Vasopressin controls osmotic water transport in the renal collecting duct through regulation of aquaporin-2. We carried out bioinformatic analysis of quantitative proteomic data from the accompanying paper to investigate mechanisms involved. The experiments used SILAC (Stable Isotope Labeling by Amino acids in Cell culture) in cultured mpkCCD cells to quantify each protein species in each of 5 differential-centrifugation (DC) fractions with or without the vasopressin analog (dDAVP). The mass spectrometry data and parallel western blotting experiments confirmed that dDAVP addition is associated with an increase of aquaporin-2 abundance in the 17,000 Xg pellet and a corresponding decrease in the 200,000 Xg pellet. Remarkably, all subunits of the cytoplasmic ribosome also increased in the 17,000 Xg pellet in response to dDAVP (P<10(-34)) with a concomitant decrease in the 200,000 Xg pellet. Eukaryotic translation initiation complex 3 (eIF-3) subunits underwent parallel changes (P<10(-6)). These findings are consistent with translocation of assembled ribosomes and eIF-3 complexes into the rough endoplasmic reticulum in response to dDAVP. Conversely, there was a systematic decrease in small GTPase abundances in the 17,000 Xg fraction. In contrast, most proteins showed no systematic redistribution among DC fractions including protein kinases. 246 of the 521 protein kinases coded by the mouse genome were identified, but many fewer were found to colocalize with aquaporin-2 among DC fractions. Bayes' Rule was used to integrate the new colocalization data with prior data in order to identify protein kinases most likely to phosphorylate aquaporin-2 at Ser256 (Camk2b>Camk2d>Prkaca) and Ser261 (Mapk1=Mapk3>Mapk14).
To explore the molecular mechanisms of the anti-cancer effect of curcumin in human lung squamous cell carcinoma (LSQCC) SK-MES-1 cells.
Cell viability was determined using MTT assay. Ribonucleic acid sequencing was performed to measure expression levels of transcripts in LSQCC cells treated with 15 μmol/L curcumin (treatment groups) or an equal amount of dimethylsulfoxide (control). Cuffdiff software was used to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in treatment groups, followed by enrichment analysis of DEGs using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integration Discovery. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks for up and downregulated DEGs were constructed by Cytoscape software using Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes data to identify hub nodes.
Curcumin significantly reduced cell viability in LSQCC cells. In total, 380 DEGs including 154 upregulated and 126 downregulated genes were found in the treatment groups. The upregulated genes were enriched in base excision repair (BER, such as PCNA, POLL, and MUTYH) and Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAT-STAT) signaling pathways (such as AKT1 and STAT5A), while the downregulated genes were enriched in nine pathways, including the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling pathway (such as PTK2, VEGFA, MAPK1, and MAPK14) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway (ARRB2, MAPK1, MAPK14, and NFKB1). PCNA and AKT1 were the hub nodes in the PPI network of upregulated genes while MAPK1, MAPK14, VEGFA, and NFKB1 were the hub nodes in the PPI network of downregulated genes.
Curcumin might exert anti-cancer effects on LSQCC via regulating BER, JAT-STAT, VEGF, and MAPK signaling pathways.
The role of Ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM) in response to DNA damage has previously been studied, but its underlying mechanisms specific to ionizing radiation (IR) have remained to be elucidated. In this study, function of ATM on radiation-induced cell death in lung cancer H1299 cells was analysed.
Human lung cancer cells, H1299, were used, and cell models with ATM(-/-) and MAPK14(-/-) were established by genetic engineering. Radiosensitivity was analysed using colony formation assays. Western blotting and co-immunoprecipitation were implemented to detect protein expression and interaction. MDC staining and GFP-LC3 relocalization were used to detect autophagy.
Autophagy as well as phosphorylation of ATM was activated by ionizing radiation. Both the inhibitor of ATM, KU55933 and ATM silencing reduced phosphorylation of ATM and MAPKAPK2 expression. Both ATM(-/-) and MAPK14(-/-) cells displayed hypersensitivity. IR increased autophagy level by more than 129% in DMSO-treated cells, while only by 47% and 27% in KU55933-treated and ATM(-/-) cells respectively. MAPK14 knock-down alone gave rise to the basal autophagy level, but decreased notably after IR. KU55933 and ATM knock-down inhibited IR-induced autophagy by activating mTOR pathways. Both Beclin1-PI3KIII and Beclin1-MAPKAPK2 interactions as were remarkably affected by silencing either ATM or MAPK14.
ATM promoted IR-induced autophagy via the MAPK14 pathway, mTOR pathway and Beclin1/PI3KIII complexes. MAPK14 contributed to radiosensitization of H1299 cells.
Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) is still an important cause of morbidity and mortality in patients receiving mechanical ventilation. This research aimed to investigate the genes related to VAP and potential diagnosis targets.
Gene expression profiles data of GSE30385 were downloaded from Gene Expression Omnibus, which included 10 samples of patients with VAP and 10 samples of patients without VAP. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between two types of patients were identified by limma package and the functions and pathways of DEGs were predicted by Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses. Next, the protein-protein interaction (PPI) pairs of all genes in the samples were obtained from STRING database. Then we searched genes related to VAP in NCBI, and constructed a PPI network of these genes. Subsequently, the overlapped genes between genes in the PPI network and DEGs were searched, followed by expression patterns analysis. Furthermore, genes in PPI network were subjected to function and pathway enrichment analysis, and transcription factors were screened on the basis of TRANSFAC database.
A total of 69 DEGs were screened between two types of patient samples, and 7 genes related to VAP were obtained. The overlapped genes (e.g. LTF, MAPK14) were enriched in MAPK cascade and immune system-related processes. In addition, MAPK14 was enriched in MAPK signaling pathway.
The VAP-related genes (MAPK14 and LTF) might be the crucial genes in the pathogenesis of VAP, and be served as potential diagnostic targets.
Schizophrenia is a common psychiatric disorder with high heritability and complex genetic architecture. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified several significant loci associated with schizophrenia. However, the explained heritability is still low. Growing evidence has shown schizophrenia is attributable to multiple genes with moderate effects. In-depth mining and integration of GWAS data is urgently expected to uncover disease-related gene combination patterns. Network-based analysis is a promising strategy to better interpret GWAS to identify disease-related network modules. We performed a network-based analysis on three independent schizophrenia GWASs by using a refined analysis framework, which included a more accurate gene P-value calculation, dynamic network module searching algorithm and detailed functional analysis for the obtained modules genes. The result generated 79 modules including 238 genes, which form a highly connected subnetwork with more statistical significance than expected by chance. The result validated several reported disease genes, such as MAD1L1, MCC, SDCCAG8, VAT1L, MAPK14, MYH9 and FXYD6, and also obtained several novel candidate genes and gene-gene interactions. Pathway enrichment analysis of the module genes suggested they were enriched in several neural and immune system related pathways/GO terms, such as neurotrophin signaling pathway, synaptosome, regulation of protein ubiquitination, and antigen processing and presentation. Further crosstalk analysis revealed these pathways/GO terms were cooperated with each other, and identified several important genes, which might play vital roles to connect these functions. Our network-based analysis of schizophrenia GWASs will facilitate the understanding of genetic mechanisms of schizophrenia.
To identify genes with aberrant promoter methylation for developing novel diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets against primary colorectal cancer (CRC).
Two paired CRC and adjacent normal tissues were collected from two CRC patients. A Resi: MBD2b protein-sepharose-4B column was used to enrich the methylated DNA fragments. Difference in the average methylation level of each DNA methylation region between the tumor and control samples was determined by log2 fold change (FC) in each patient to screen the differentially methylated DNA regions. Genes with log2FC value ≥4 or ≤-4 were identified to be hypermethylated and hypomethylated, respectively. Then, the underlying functions of methylated genes were speculated by Gene Ontology database and pathway enrichment analyses. Furthermore, a protein-protein interaction network was built using Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins database, and the transcription factor binding sites were screened via the Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE) database.
Totally, 2,284 and 1,142 genes were predicted to have aberrant promoter hypermethylation or hypomethylation, respectively. MAP3K5, MAP3K8, MAPK14, and MAPK9 with promoter hypermethylation functioned via MAPK signaling pathway, focal adhesion, or Wnt signaling pathway, whereas MAP2K1, MAPK3, MAPK11, and MAPK7 with promoter hypomethylation functioned via TGF-beta signaling pathway, neurotrophin signaling pathway, and chemokine signaling pathway. CREBBP, PIK3R1, MAPK14, APP, ESR1, MAPK3, and HRAS were the seven hubs in the constructed protein-protein interaction network. RPL22, RPL36, RPLP2, RPS7, and RPS9 were commonly regulated by transcription factors, and YY1 and IRF4 were hypermethylated.
MAPK14, MAPK3, HRAS, YY1, and IRF4 may be considered as potential biomarkers for early diagnosis and therapy of CRC.
In addition to its established role in inflammation, the stress-activated p38 MAP kinase pathway plays major roles in the regulation of cell cycle, senescence, and autophagy. Robust studies could establish mechanistic links between MAPK11-MAPK14/p38 signaling and macroautophagy converging at ATG9-trafficking and BECN1 phosphorylation. However, several reports seem to monitor MAPK11-MAPK14/p38-dependence of autophagy exclusively by the use of the SB203580/SB202190 class of MAPK14/MAPK11/p38α/β inhibitors. In this "Letter to the editor" we present data to support our claim that these inhibitors interfere with autophagic flux in a MAPK11-MAPK14/p38-independent manner and hence should no longer be used as pharmacological tools in the analysis of MAPK11-MAPK14/p38-dependence of autophagy. We propose a general guideline from Autophagy with regard to this issue to avoid such misinterpretations in the future.
Recognition of viral nucleic acids leads to type I and type III IFN gene expression and activation of host antiviral responses. At present, type III IFN genes are the least well-characterized IFN types. Here, we demonstrate that the p38 MAPK signaling pathway is involved in regulating IFN-λ1 gene expression in response to various types of RNA molecules in human moDCs. Inhibition of p38 MAPK strongly reduced IFN gene expression, and overexpression of p38α MAPK enhanced IFN-λ1 gene expression in RNA-stimulated moDCs. The regulation of IFN gene expression by p38 MAPK signaling was independent of protein synthesis and thus, a direct result of RNA stimulation. Moreover, the RIG-I/MDA5-MAVS-IRF3 pathway was required for p38α MAPK to up-regulate IFN-λ1 promoter activation, whereas the MyD88-IRF7 pathway was not needed, and the regulation was not involved directly in IRF7-dependent IFN-α1 gene expression. The stimulatory effect of p38α MAPK on IFN-λ1 mRNA expression in human moDCs did not take place directly via the activating TBK1/IKKε complex, but rather, it occurred through some other parallel pathways. Furthermore, mutations in ISRE and NF-κB binding sites in the promoter region of the IFN-λ1 gene led to a significant reduction in p38α MAPK-mediated IFN responses after RNA stimulation. Altogether, our data suggest that the p38α MAPK pathway is linked with RLR signaling pathways and regulates the expression of early IFN genes after RNA stimulation cooperatively with IRF3 and NF-κB to induce antiviral responses further.
P38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) is a pro-apoptotic and pro-inflammatory protein that is activated in response to cellular stress. While p38 is known to be activated in response to cerebral ischemia, the precise role of p38 and its isoforms in ischemia-induced neuronal apoptosis remains unclear. In the current study, we examined the differential activation and functional roles of p38α and p38β MAPK isoforms in short-term ovariectomized female rats treated with either the neuroprotective ovarian hormone 17beta-estradiol (E2) or placebo in a model of global cerebral ischemia (GCI). GCI induced biphasic activation of total p38 in the hippocampal CA1, with peaks at 30 min and 1 day after 10-min ischemia-reperfusion. Further study demonstrated that activated p38α, but not p38β, translocated to the nucleus 30 min and 3 h post reperfusion, and that this event coincided with increased phosphorylation of activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2), a p38 target protein. Intriguingly, activated p38α was also enhanced in mitochondrial fractions of CA1 neurons 1 day after GCI, and there was loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, as well as enhanced cytochrome c release and caspase-3 cleavage at 2 days post GCI. Importantly, E2 prevented the biphasic activation of p38, as well as both nuclear and mitochondrial translocation of p38α after GCI, and these findings correlated with attenuation of mitochondrial dysfunction and delayed neuronal cell death in the hippocampal CA1. Furthermore, administration of a p38 inhibitor was able to mimic the neuroprotective effects of E2 in the hippocampal CA1 region by preventing nuclear and mitochondrial translocation of p38α, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, and neuronal apoptosis. As a whole, this study suggests that changes in subcellular localization of the activated p38α isoform are required for neuronal apoptosis following GCI, and that E2 exerts robust neuroprotection, in part, through dual inhibition of activation and subcellular trafficking of p38α.
An improved understanding of the molecular pathways that drive tooth morphogenesis and enamel secretion is needed to generate teeth from organ cultures for therapeutic implantation or to determine the pathogenesis of primary disorders of dentition (Abdollah, S., Macias-Silva, M., Tsukazaki, T., Hayashi, H., Attisano, L., and Wrana, J. L. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 27678-27685). Here we present a novel ectodermal dysplasia phenotype associated with conditional deletion of p38α MAPK in ectodermal appendages using K14-cre mice (p38α(K14) mice). These mice display impaired patterning of dental cusps and a profound defect in the production and biomechanical strength of dental enamel because of defects in ameloblast differentiation and activity. In the absence of p38α, expression of amelogenin and β4-integrin in ameloblasts and p21 in the enamel knot was significantly reduced. Mice lacking the MAP2K MKK6, but not mice lacking MAP2K MKK3, also show the enamel defects, implying that MKK6 functions as an upstream kinase of p38α in ectodermal appendages. Lastly, stimulation with BMP2/7 in both explant culture and an ameloblast cell line confirm that p38α functions downstream of BMPs in this context. Thus, BMP-induced activation of the p38α MAPK pathway is critical for the morphogenesis of tooth cusps and the secretion of dental enamel.
Off-target interactions of a popular immunosuppressant Cyclosporine A (CSA) with several proteins besides its molecular target, cyclophilin A, are implicated in the activation of signaling pathways that lead to numerous side effects of this drug.
Using structural human proteome and a novel algorithm for inverse ligand binding prediction, ILbind, we determined a comprehensive set of 100+ putative partners of CSA. We empirically show that predictive quality of ILbind is better compared with other available predictors for this compound. We linked the putative target proteins, which include many new partners of CSA, with cellular functions, canonical pathways and toxicities that are typical for patients who take this drug. We used complementary approaches (molecular docking, molecular dynamics, surface plasmon resonance binding analysis and enzymatic assays) to validate and characterize three novel CSA targets: calpain 2, caspase 3 and p38 MAP kinase 14. The three targets are involved in the apoptotic pathways, are interconnected and are implicated in nephrotoxicity.
Genetics can be used to predict drug effects and generate hypotheses around alternative indications. To support Losmapimod, a p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor in development for acute coronary syndrome, we characterized gene variation in MAPK11/14 genes by exome sequencing and follow-up genotyping or imputation in participants well-phenotyped for cardiovascular and metabolic traits.
Investigation of genetic variation in MAPK11 and MAPK14 genes using additive genetic models in linear or logistic regression with cardiovascular, metabolic, and biomarker phenotypes highlighted an association of RS2859144 in MAPK14 with myeloperoxidase in a dyslipidemic population (Genetic Epidemiology of Metabolic Syndrome Study), P=2.3×10(-6)). This variant (or proxy) was consistently associated with myeloperoxidase in the Framingham Heart Study and Cardiovascular Health Study studies (replication meta-P=0.003), leading to a meta-P value of 9.96×10(-7) in the 3 dyslipidemic groups. The variant or its proxy was then profiled in additional population-based cohorts (up to a total of 58 930 subjects) including Cohorte Lausannoise, Ely, Fenland, European Prospective Investigation of Cancer, London Life Sciences Prospective Population Study, and the Genetics of Obesity Associations study obesity case-control for up to 40 cardiovascular and metabolic traits. Overall analysis identified the same single nucleotide polymorphisms to be nominally associated consistently with glomerular filtration rate (P=0.002) and risk of obesity (body mass index ≥30 kg/m(2), P=0.004).
As myeloperoxidase is a prognostic marker of coronary events, the MAPK14 variant may provide a mechanistic link between p38 map kinase and these events, providing information consistent with current indication of Losmapimod for acute coronary syndrome. If replicated, the association with glomerular filtration rate, along with previous biological findings, also provides support for kidney diseases as alternative indications.
We report on a quantitative study of small molecule binding kinetics on protein microarrays with plasmonic-based electrochemical impedance microscopy (P-EIM). P-EIM measures electrical impedance optically with high spatial resolution by converting a surface charge change to a surface plasmon resonance (SPR) image intensity change, and the signal is not scaled to the mass of the analyte. Using P-EIM, we measured binding kinetics and affinity between small molecule drugs (imatinib and SB202190) and their target proteins (kinases Abl1 and p38-α). The measured affinity values are consistent with reported values measured by an indirect competitive binding assay. We also found that SB202190 has weak bindings to ABL1 with KD > 10 μM, which is not reported in the literature. Furthermore, we found that P-EIM is less prone to nonspecific binding, a long-standing issue in SPR. Our results show that P-EIM is a novel method for high-throughput measurement of small molecule binding kinetics and affinity, which is critical to the understanding of small molecules in biological systems and discovery of small molecule drugs.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains one of the most common malignancies in the world. Although surgical resection combined with adjuvant therapy is effective at the early stages of the disease, resistance to conventional therapies is frequently observed in advanced stages, where treatments become ineffective. Resistance to cisplatin, irinotecan and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy has been shown to involve mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling and recent studies identified p38α MAPK as a mediator of resistance to various agents in CRC patients. Studies published in the last decade showed a dual role for the p38α pathway in mammals. Its role as a negative regulator of proliferation has been reported in both normal (including cardiomyocytes, hepatocytes, fibroblasts, hematopoietic and lung cells) and cancer cells (colon, prostate, breast, lung tumor cells). This function is mediated by the negative regulation of cell cycle progression and the transduction of some apoptotic stimuli. However, despite its anti-proliferative and tumor suppressor activity in some tissues, the p38α pathway may also acquire an oncogenic role involving cancer related-processes such as cell metabolism, invasion, inflammation and angiogenesis. In this review, we summarize current knowledge about the predominant role of the p38α MAPK pathway in CRC development and chemoresistance. In our view, this might help establish the therapeutic potential of the targeted manipulation of this pathway in clinical settings.
The mechanisms underlying lipotoxic/diabetic cardiomyopathy remain poorly understood. Saturated fatty acid (SFA) levels, elevated in obesity and type 2 diabetes, induce apoptosis in many cell types including cardiomyocytes. Signaling pathways, including the p38α mitogen-activated kinase (MAPK)-dependent pathway, have been implicated in apoptosis due to a diverse range of insults.
We tested the hypothesis that SFA-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis is dependent on p38α activation.
Human adult ventricular cardiomyocytes (AC16 cells) were exposed to high physiological levels of palmitate (PA), a SFA. The apoptotic response was measured using annexin-V by flow cytometry, and the p38α-dependent pathway was evaluated using a p38 inhibitor PD169316, and by p38α small interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdown. PA exposure for 16 h dose-dependently increased apoptosis in AC16 cardiomyocytes (control: 2.6±0.6%, 150 μM PA: 3.5±0.9%, 300 μM PA: 11.5±1.6%, n=4, p<0.01). PA did not change total p38α protein levels, but increased p38α phosphorylation dose-dependently (n=5, p<0.01). PD169316 tended to reduce PA-induced apoptosis (n=4, p=0.05). Specific p38α siRNA markedly reduced the expression of p38α but not p38β (n=3, p<0.0001), and dose-dependently attenuated PA-induced apoptosis (control siRNA: 7.7±1.0%, 300 μM PA: 34.4±5.0%, 300 μM PA+30 pmol siRNA: 23.7±4.4%, 300 μM PA+60 pmol siRNA: 19.7±2.6%, 300 μM PA+120 pmol siRNA: 17.3±2.8%, n=4, p<0.0001).
These results demonstrate that PA induces p38α activation, and reducing p38α expression attenuates PA-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Our results support a potential mechanism by which high plasma SFA levels through p38α activation may lead to the development of lipotoxic/diabetic cardiomyopathy.
Muscular dystrophies are a group of genetic diseases that lead to muscle wasting and, in most cases, premature death. Cytokines and inflammatory factors are released during the disease process where they promote deleterious signaling events that directly participate in myofiber death. Here, we show that p38α, a kinase in the greater mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-signaling network, serves as a nodal regulator of disease signaling in dystrophic muscle. Deletion of Mapk14 (p38α-encoding gene) in the skeletal muscle of mdx- (lacking dystrophin) or sgcd- (δ-sarcoglycan-encoding gene) null mice resulted in a significant reduction in pathology up to 6 months of age. We also generated MAPK kinase 6 (MKK6) muscle-specific transgenic mice to model heightened p38α disease signaling that occurs in dystrophic muscle, which resulted in severe myofiber necrosis and many hallmarks of muscular dystrophy. Mechanistically, we show that p38α directly induces myofiber death through a mitochondrial-dependent pathway involving direct phosphorylation and activation of the pro-death Bcl-2 family member Bax. Indeed, muscle-specific deletion of Bax, but not the apoptosis regulatory gene Tp53 (encoding p53), significantly reduced dystrophic pathology in the muscles of MKK6 transgenic mice. Moreover, use of a p38 MAPK pharmacologic inhibitor reduced dystrophic disease in Sgcd(-/-) mice suggesting a future therapeutic approach to delay disease.
Berberine (BBR), a component from traditional Chinese medicine, has been shown to possess anti-tumor activity against a wide spectrum of cancer cells including human lung cancer, but the detailed mechanism underlining this has not been well elucidated.
In this study, the effect of berberine on cell growth and apoptosis were assessed by MTT, flow cytometry and Hoechst 33258 staining assays. The phosphorylation of p38 MAPK and ERK1/2, and expressions of p38 MAPK isoforms α and β, total ERK1/2, p53, FOXO3a and p21 protein were evaluated by Western Blot analysis. Silencing of p38 MAPK isoform α and β, p53, FOXO3a and p21 were performed by siRNA methods. Exogenous expression of FOXO3a was carried out by electroporated transfection assays.
We showed that BBR significantly inhibited growth and induced cell cycle arrest of non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells in the G0/G1 phase in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, we found that BBR increased phosphorylation of p38 MAPK and ERK1/2 in a time-dependent and induced protein expression of tumor suppressor p53 and transcription factor FOXO3a in a dose-dependent fashion. The specific inhibitor of p38 MAPK (SB203580), and silencing of p38α MAPK by small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), but not ERK1/2 inhibitor (PD98059) blocked the stimulatory effects of BBR on protein expression of p53 and FOXO3a. Interestingly, inhibition of p53 using one specific inhibitor (Pifithrin-α) and silencing of p53 using siRNAs overcome the inhibitory effect of BBR on cell growth. Silencing of FOXO3a appeared to attenuate the effect of BBR on p53 expression, cell proliferation and apoptosis. Furthermore, BBR induces the protein expression of cell cycle inhibitor p21 (CIP1/WAF1), which was not observed in cells silencing of p53 or FOXO3α gene. Intriguingly, exogenous expression of FOXO3a enhanced the expression of p21 (CIP1/WAF1) and strengthened BBR-induced apoptosis.
Our results show that BBR inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis of NSCLC cells through activation of p38α MAPK signaling pathway, followed by induction of the protein expression of p53 and FOXO3a. The latter contribute to the BBR-increased p21 (CIP1/WAF1) protein expression. The exogenous FOXO3a, interaction and mutually exclusive events of p53 and FOXO3a augment the overall response of BBR.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is a paracrine factor involved in organogenesis, tissue repair, and wound healing. We report here that HGF promotes osteogenic differentiation through the transcription of key osteogenic markers, including osteocalcin, osterix, and osteoprotegerin in human mesenchymal stem cells and is a necessary component for the establishment of osteoblast mineralization. Blocking endogenous HGF using PHA665752, a c-Met inhibitor (the HGF receptor), or an HGF-neutralizing antibody attenuates mineralization, and PHA665752 markedly reduced alkaline phosphatase activity. Moreover, we report that HGF promotion of osteogenic differentiation involves the rapid phosphorylation of p38 and differential regulation of its isoforms, p38α and p38β. Western blot analysis revealed a significantly increased level of p38α and p38β protein, and reverse transcription quantitative PCR revealed that HGF increased the transcriptional level of both p38α and p38β. Using small interfering RNA to reduce the transcription of p38α and p38β, we saw differential roles for p38α and p38β on the HGF-induced expression of key osteogenic markers. In summary, our data demonstrate the importance of p38 signaling in HGF regulation of osteogenic differentiation.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase-activated protein kinase MK5 is a substrate of the mitogen-activated protein kinases p38, ERK3 and ERK4. Cell culture and animal studies have demonstrated that MK5 is involved in tumour suppression and promotion, embryogenesis, anxiety, cell motility and cell cycle regulation. In the present study, homology models of MK5 were used for molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of: (1) MK5 alone; (2) MK5 in complex with an inhibitor; and (3) MK5 in complex with the interaction partner p38α. The calculations showed that the inhibitor occupied the active site and disrupted the intramolecular network of amino acids. However, intramolecular interactions consistent with an inactive protein kinase fold were not formed. MD with p38α showed that not only the p38 docking region, but also amino acids in the activation segment, αH helix, P-loop, regulatory phosphorylation region and the C-terminal of MK5 may be involved in forming a very stable MK5-p38α complex, and that p38α binding decreases the residual fluctuation of the MK5 model. Electrostatic Potential Surface (EPS) calculations of MK5 and p38α showed that electrostatic interactions are important for recognition and binding.
Cells, particularly mechano-sensitive musculoskeletal cells such as tenocytes, routinely encounter oxidative stress. Oxidative stress can not only stimulate tissue repair, but also cause damage leading to tissue degeneration. As diabetes is associated with increased oxidative damage as well as increased risk of tendon degeneration, the aim of this study was to determine if extracellular glucose levels alter the response of tendon cells to oxidative stress. Primary human tenocytes were cultured in either high (17.5 mM) or low (5 mM) glucose and treated with 100 μM hydrogen peroxide. In low glucose, peroxide-treated cells remained fully viable and collagen synthesis was increased, suggesting an anabolic response. In high glucose, however, peroxide treatment led to increased bim-mediated apoptosis. The activities of both forkhead box O (FOXO1) and p53 were required for upregulation of bim RNA expression in high glucose. We found that both p53-mediated inhibition of the bim repressor micro RNA (miR17-92) and FOXO1-mediated upregulation of bim transcription were required to permit accumulation of bim RNA. High glucose coupled with oxidative stress resulted in upregulation of miR28-5p, which directly inhibited expression of the p53 deacetylase sirtuin 3, resulting in increased levels of acetylated p53. In peroxide-treated cells in both high and low glucose, protein levels of acetylated FOXO1 as well as HIF1α (hypoxia-inducible factor 1α) were increased. However, under low-glucose conditions, peroxide treatment resulted in activation of p38, which inhibited FOXO1-mediated but promoted HIF1α-mediated transcriptional activity. In low glucose, HIF1α upregulated expression of sox9 and scleraxis, two critical transcription factors involved in establishing the tenocyte phenotype, and increased collagen synthesis. The switch from FOXO1-mediated (proapoptosis) to HIF1α-mediated (prodifferentiation) transcription occurred at an extracellular glucose concentration of 7 mM, a concentration equivalent to the maximum normal blood glucose concentration. Extracellular glucose has a profound effect on the cellular response to oxidative stress. A level of oxidative stress normally anabolic may be pathological in high glucose.
The small kinase inhibitor SKF86002 lacks intrinsic fluorescence but becomes fluorescent upon binding to the ATP-binding sites of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38α). It was found that co-crystals of this compound with various kinases were distinguishable by their strong fluorescence. The co-crystals of SKF86002 with p38α, Pim1, ASK1, HCK and AMPK were fluorescent. Addition of SKF86002, which binds to the ATP site, to the co-crystallization solution of HCK promoted protein stability and thus facilitated the production of crystals that otherwise would not grow in the apo form. It was further demonstrated that the fluorescence of SKF86002 co-crystals can be applied to screen for candidate kinase inhibitors. When a compound binds competitively to the ATP-binding site of a kinase crystallized with SKF86002, it displaces the fluorescent SKF86002 and the crystal loses its fluorescence. Lower fluorescent signals were reported after soaking SKF86002-Pim1 and SKF86002-HCK co-crystals with the inhibitors quercetin, a quinazoline derivative and A-419259. Determination of the SKF86002-Pim1 and SKF86002-HCK co-crystal structures confirmed that SKF86002 interacts with the ATP-binding sites of Pim1 and HCK. The structures of Pim1-SKF86002 crystals soaked with the inhibitors quercetin and a quinazoline derivative and of HCK-SKF86002 crystals soaked with A-419259 were determined. These structures were virtually identical to the deposited crystal structures of the same complexes. A KINOMEscan assay revealed that SKF86002 binds a wide variety of kinases. Thus, for a broad range of kinases, SKF86002 is useful as a crystal marker, a crystal stabilizer and a marker to identify ligand co-crystals for structural analysis.
Skeletal muscle aging results in a gradual loss of skeletal muscle mass, skeletal muscle function and regenerative capacity, which can lead to sarcopenia and increased mortality. Although the mechanisms underlying sarcopenia remain unclear, the skeletal muscle stem cell, or satellite cell, is required for muscle regeneration. Therefore, identification of signaling pathways affecting satellite cell function during aging may provide insights into therapeutic targets for combating sarcopenia. Here, we show that a cell-autonomous loss in self-renewal occurs via alterations in fibroblast growth factor receptor-1, p38α and p38β mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling in satellite cells from aged mice. We further demonstrate that pharmacological manipulation of these pathways can ameliorate age-associated self-renewal defects. Thus, our data highlight an age-associated deregulation of a satellite cell homeostatic network and reveal potential therapeutic opportunities for the treatment of progressive muscle wasting.
Astrocytes are the most abundant glial cell in the retinal nerve fiber layer (NFL) and optic nerve head (ONH), and perform essential roles in maintaining retinal ganglion cell (RGC) detoxification and homeostasis. Mature astrocytes are relatively quiescent, but rapidly undergo a phenotypic switch in response to insult, characterized by upregulation of intermediate filament proteins, loss of glutamate buffering, secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and increased antioxidant production. These changes result in both positive and negative influences on RGCs. However, the mechanism regulating these responses is still unclear, and pharmacologic strategies to modulate select aspects of this switch have not been thoroughly explored. Here we describe a system for rapid culture of mature astrocytes from the adult rat retina that remain relatively quiescent, but respond robustly when challenged with oxidative damage, a key pathogenic stress associated with inner retinal injury. When primary astrocytes were exposed to reactive oxygen species (ROS) we consistently observed characteristic changes in activation markers, along with increased expression of detoxifying genes, and secretion of proinflammatory cytokines. This in vitro model was then used for a pilot chemical screen to target specific aspects of this switch. Increased activity of p38α and β Mitogen Activated Protein Kinases (MAPKs) were identified as a necessary signal regulating expression of MnSOD, and heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1), with consequent changes in ROS-mediated injury. Additionally, multiplex cytokine profiling detected p38 MAPK-dependent secretion of IL-6, MCP-1, and MIP-2α, which are proinflammatory signals recently implicated in damage to the inner retina. These data provide a mechanism to link increased oxidative stress to proinflammatory signaling by astrocytes, and establish this assay as a useful model to further dissect factors regulating the reactive switch.
The number of large-scale high-dimensional datasets recording different aspects of a single disease is growing, accompanied by a need for frameworks that can create one coherent model from multiple tensors of matched columns, e.g., patients and platforms, but independent rows, e.g., probes. We define and prove the mathematical properties of a novel tensor generalized singular value decomposition (GSVD), which can simultaneously find the similarities and dissimilarities, i.e., patterns of varying relative significance, between any two such tensors. We demonstrate the tensor GSVD in comparative modeling of patient- and platform-matched but probe-independent ovarian serous cystadenocarcinoma (OV) tumor, mostly high-grade, and normal DNA copy-number profiles, across each chromosome arm, and combination of two arms, separately. The modeling uncovers previously unrecognized patterns of tumor-exclusive platform-consistent co-occurring copy-number alterations (CNAs). We find, first, and validate that each of the patterns across only 7p and Xq, and the combination of 6p+12p, is correlated with a patient's prognosis, is independent of the tumor's stage, the best predictor of OV survival to date, and together with stage makes a better predictor than stage alone. Second, these patterns include most known OV-associated CNAs that map to these chromosome arms, as well as several previously unreported, yet frequent focal CNAs. Third, differential mRNA, microRNA, and protein expression consistently map to the DNA CNAs. A coherent picture emerges for each pattern, suggesting roles for the CNAs in OV pathogenesis and personalized therapy. In 6p+12p, deletion of the p21-encoding CDKN1A and p38-encoding MAPK14 and amplification of RAD51AP1 and KRAS encode for human cell transformation, and are correlated with a cell's immortality, and a patient's shorter survival time. In 7p, RPA3 deletion and POLD2 amplification are correlated with DNA stability, and a longer survival. In Xq, PABPC5 deletion and BCAP31 amplification are correlated with a cellular immune response, and a longer survival.
The p38 MAP kinases (p38 MAPKs) represent an important family centrally involved in mediating extracellular signaling. Recent studies indicate that family members such as MAPK13 (p38δ) display a selective cellular and tissue expression and are therefore involved in specific diseases. Detailed structural studies of all p38 MAPK family members are crucial for the design of specific inhibitors. In order to facilitate such ventures, the structure of MAPK13 was determined in both the inactive (unphosphorylated; MAPK13) and active (dual phosphorylated; MAPK13/pTpY) forms. Here, the first preparation, crystallization and structure determination of MAPK13/pTpY are presented and the structure is compared with the previously reported structure of MAPK13 in order to facilitate studies for structure-based drug design. A comprehensive analysis of inactive versus active structures for the p38 MAPK family is also presented. It is found that MAPK13 undergoes a larger interlobe configurational rearrangement upon activation compared with MAPK14. Surprisingly, the analysis of activated p38 MAPK structures (MAP12/pTpY, MAPK13/pTpY and MAPK14/pTpY) reveals that, despite a high degree of sequence similarity, different side chains are used to coordinate the phosphorylated residues. There are also differences in the rearrangement of the hinge region that occur in MAPK14 compared with MAPK13 which would affect inhibitor binding. A thorough examination of all of the active (phosphorylated) and inactive (unphosphorylated) p38 MAPK family member structures was performed to reveal a common structural basis of activation for the p38 MAP kinase family and to identify structural differences that may be exploited for developing family member-specific inhibitors.
In cultured cells, not many mitochondria are degraded by mitophagy induced by physiological cellular stress. We observed mitophagy in HeLa cells using a method that relies on the pH-sensitive fluorescent protein Keima. With this approach, we found that mitophagy was barely induced by carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone treatment, which is widely used as an inducer of PARK2/Parkin-related mitophagy, whereas a small but modest amount of mitochondria were degraded by mitophagy under conditions of starvation or hypoxia. Mitophagy induced by starvation or hypoxia was marginally suppressed by knockdown of ATG7 and ATG12, or MAP1LC3B, which are essential for conventional macroautophagy. In addition, mitophagy was efficiently induced in Atg5 knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts. However, knockdown of RAB9A and RAB9B, which are essential for alternative autophagy, but not conventional macroautophagy, severely suppressed mitophagy. Finally, we found that the MAPKs MAPK1/ERK2 and MAPK14/p38 were required for mitophagy. Based on these findings, we conclude that mitophagy in mammalian cells predominantly occurs through an alternative autophagy pathway, requiring the MAPK1 and MAPK14 signaling pathways.
Mesoderm formation and subsequent anterior-posterior (A-P) axis elongation are fundamental aspects of gastrulation, which is initiated by formation of the primitive streak (PS). Convergent extension (CE) movements and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) are important for A-P axis elongation in vertebrate embryos. The evolutionarily conserved planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway regulates CE, and Wnts regulate many aspects of gastrulation including CE and EMT. However, the Wnt ligands that regulate A-P axis elongation in mammalian development remain unknown. Wnt11 and Wnt5a regulate axis elongation in lower vertebrates, but only Wnt5a, not Wnt11, regulates mammalian PCP signaling and A-P axis elongation in development. Here, by generating Wnt5a; Wnt11 compound mutants, we show that Wnt11 and Wnt5a play redundant roles during mouse A-P axis elongation. Both genes regulate trunk notochord extension through PCP-controlled CE of notochord cells, establishing a role for Wnt11 in mammalian PCP. We show that Wnt5a and Wnt11 are required for proper patterning of the neural tube and somites by regulating notochord formation, and provide evidence that both genes are required for the generation and migration of axial and paraxial mesodermal precursor cells by regulating EMT. Axial and paraxial mesodermal precursors ectopically accumulate in the PS at late gastrula stages in Wnt5a(-/-); Wnt11(-/-) embryos and these cells ectopically express epithelial cell adhesion molecules. Our data suggest that Wnt5a and Wnt11 regulate EMT by inducing p38 (Mapk14) phosphorylation. Our findings provide new insights into the role of Wnt5a and Wnt11 in mouse early development and also in cancer metastasis, during which EMT plays a crucial role.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is characterized as hyperglycaemia caused by defects in insulin secretion, and it affects target tissues, such as skeletal muscle, liver and adipose tissue. Therefore, analyzing the changes of gene expression profiles in these tissues is important to elucidate the pathogenesis of T2D. We, therefore, measured the gene transcript alterations in liver and skeletal muscle of rat with induced T2D, to detect differentially expressed genes in liver and skeletal muscle and perform gene-annotation enrichment analysis.
In the present study, skeletal muscle and liver tissue from 10 streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats and 10 control rats were analyzed using gene expression microarrays. KEGG pathways enriched by differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by WebGestalt Expander and GATHER software. DEGs were validated by the method of real-time PCR and western blot.
From the 9,929 expressed genes across the genome, 1,305 and 997 differentially expressed genes (DEGs, P<0.01) were identified in comparisons of skeletal muscle and liver, respectively. Large numbers of DEGs (200) were common in both comparisons, which was clearly more than the predicted number (131 genes, P<0.001). For further interpretation of the gene expression data, three over-representation analysis softwares (WebGestalt, Expander and GATHER) were used. All the tools detected one KEGG pathway (MAPK signaling) and two GO (gene ontology) biological processes (response to stress and cell death), with enrichment of DEGs in both tissues. In addition, PPI (protein-protein interaction) networks constructed using human homologues not only revealed the tendency of DEGs to form a highly connected module, but also suggested a "hub" role of p38-MAPK-related genes (such as MAPK14) in the pathogenesis of T2D.
Our results indicated the considerably aberrant MAPK signaling in both insulin-sensitive tissues of T2D rat, and that the p38 may play a role as a common "hub" in the gene module response to hyperglycaemia. Furthermore, our research pinpoints the role of several new T2D-associated genes (such as Srebf1 and Ppargc1) in the human population.
Mycotoxins can reduce fertility and development in livestock, notably in pigs and poultry, although the effect of most mycotoxins on reproductive function in cattle has not been established. One major mycotoxin, deoxynivalenol (DON), not only targets immune cells and activates the ribotoxic stress response (RSR) involving MAPK activation, but also inhibits oocyte maturation in pigs. In this study, we determined the effect of DON on bovine granulosa cell function using a serum-free culture system. Addition of DON inhibited estradiol and progesterone secretion, and reduced levels of mRNA encoding estrogenic (CYP19A1) but not progestogenic (CYP11A1 and STAR) proteins. Cell apoptosis was increased by DON, which also increased FASLG mRNA levels. The mechanism of action of DON was assessed by western blotting and PCR experiments. Addition of DON rapidly and transiently increased phosphorylation of MAPK3/1, and resulted in a more prolonged phosphorylation of MAPK14 (p38) and MAPK8 (JNK). Activation of these pathways by DON resulted in time- and dose-dependent increases in abundance of mRNA encoding the transcription factors FOS, FOSL1, EGR1, and EGR3. We conclude that DON is deleterious to granulosa cell function and acts through a RSR pathway.
Autophagy and senescence have been described as central features of cell biology, but the interplay between these mechanisms remains obscure. Using a therapeutically relevant model of DNA damage-induced senescence in human glioma cells, we demonstrated that acute treatment with temozolomide induces DNA damage, a transitory activation of PRKAA/AMPK-ULK1 and MAPK14/p38 and the sustained inhibition of AKT-MTOR. This produced a transient induction of autophagy, which was followed by senescence. However, at the single cell level, this coordinated transition was not observed, and autophagy and senescence were triggered in a very heterogeneous manner. Indeed, at a population level, autophagy was highly negatively correlated with senescence markers, while in single cells this correlation did not exist. The inhibition of autophagy triggered apoptosis and decreased senescence, while its activation increased temozolomide-induced senescence, showing that DNA damage-induced autophagy acts by suppressing apoptosis.
Osteopontin (OPN; also known as Secreted Phosphoprotein 1, SPP1) is a secreted extra-cellular matrix (ECM) protein that binds to a variety of cell surface integrins to stimulate cell-cell and cell-ECM adhesion and communication. It is generally accepted that OPN interacts with apically expressed integrin receptors on the uterine luminal epithelium (LE) and conceptus trophectoderm to attach the conceptus to the uterus for implantation. Research conducted with pigs and sheep has significantly advanced understanding of the role(s) of OPN during implantation through exploitation of the prolonged peri-implantation period of pregnancy when elongating conceptuses are free within the uterine lumen requiring extensive paracrine signaling between conceptus and endometrium. This is followed by a protracted and incremental attachment cascade of trophectoderm to uterine LE during implantation, and development of a true epitheliochorial or synepitheliochorial placenta exhibited by pigs and sheep, respectively. In pigs, implanting conceptuses secrete estrogens which induce the synthesis and secretion of OPN in adjacent uterine LE. OPN then binds to αvβ6 integrin receptors on trophectoderm, and the αvβ3 integrin receptors on uterine LE to bridge conceptus attachment to uterine LE for implantation. In sheep, implanting conceptuses secrete interferon tau that prolongs the lifespan of CL. Progesterone released by CL then induces OPN synthesis and secretion from the endometrial GE into the uterine lumen where OPN binds integrins expressed on trophectoderm (αvβ3) and uterine LE (identity of specific integrins unknown) to adhere the conceptus to the uterus for implantation. OPN binding to the αvβ3 integrin receptor on ovine trophectoderm cells induces in vitro focal adhesion assembly, a prerequisite for adhesion and migration of trophectoderm, through activation of: 1) P70S6K via crosstalk between FRAP1/MTOR and MAPK pathways; 2) MTOR, PI3K, MAPK3/MAPK1 (Erk1/2) and MAPK14 (p38) signaling to stimulate trohectoderm cell migration; and 3) focal adhesion assembly and myosin II motor activity to induce migration of trophectoderm cells. Further large in vivo focal adhesions assemble at the uterine-placental interface of both pigs and sheep and identify the involvement of sizable mechanical forces at this interface during discrete periods of trophoblast migration, attachment and placentation in both species.
The critical role of microRNAs in cancer development has been extensively described. miRNAs are both specific markers and putative therapy targets. miR-155 has been identified to be an oncomiRNA and is highly expressed in several solid cancers, including glioblastoma. In this study, we found that miR-155 is a good potential therapy target. Knockdown of miR-155 sensitizes glioma cells to the chemotherapy of temozolomide (TMZ) by targeting the p38 isoforms mitogen-activated protein kinase 13 [MAPK13, also known as p38 MAPKδ or stress-activated protein kinase 4 (SAPK4)] and MAPK14 (also known as p38 MAPKα). As tumor suppressor genes, MAPK13 and MAPK14 play important roles in lowering the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), inducing cell apoptosis, and slowing the progression of cancer. Knockdown of miR-155 enhanced the anticancer effect of TMZ on glioma by targeting the MAPK13 and MAPK14-mediated oxidative stress and apoptosis, but did not affect the secretion of MMP2 and MMP9.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the osteoprotective effect of aqueous Rhizoma Dioscoreae extract (RDE) on the alveolar bone of rats with ovariectomy-induced bone loss.
Female Wistar rats were subjected to either ovariectomy or a sham operation (SHAM). The ovariectomized (OVX) rats were treated with vehicle (OVX) or RDE by oral gavage or with 17β-estradiol (E2) subcutaneously. After treatments, the bone mineral density (BMD), the three-dimensional bone architecture of the alveolar bone and the plasma biomarkers of bone turnover were analyzed to assess bone metabolism, and the histomorphometry of the alveolar bone was observed. Microarrays were used to evaluate gene expression profiles in alveolar bone from RDE-treated and OVX rats. The differential expression of genes was further analyzed using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA). The key findings were verified using real-time quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR).
Our results showed that RDE inhibited alveolar bone loss in OVX rats. Compared to the OVX rats, the RDE-treated rats showed upregulated expression levels of 207 genes and downregulated expression levels of 176 genes in the alveolar bone. The IPA showed that several genes had the potential to code for proteins that were involved in the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway (Wnt7a, Fzd2, Tcf3, Spp1, Frzb, Sfrp2 and Sfrp4) and the p38 MAPK signaling pathway (Il1rn and Mapk14).
These experiments revealed that RDE could inhibit ovariectomy-induced alveolar bone loss in rats. The mechanism of this anti-osteopenic effect in alveolar bone may be involved in the reduced abnormal bone remodeling, which is associated with the modulation of the Wnt/β-catenin and the p38 MAPK signaling pathways via gene regulation.
Cellular senescence, leading to cell death through prevention of regular cell renewal, is associated with the upregulation of the tumor suppressor gene p16(INK4a). While this mechanism has been described as leading to progressive nephron loss, p16(INK4a) upregulation in renal cell carcinoma has been linked to a disease-specific improved patient survival rate. While in both conditions endothelin-1 is also upregulated, the signaling pathway connecting ET-1 to p16(INK4a) has not been characterized until this study.
Cell culture, qRT-PCR, Western Blot, immunoprecipitation (IP), proximity ligation assay (PLA), and non-radioactive electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA).
In malignant renal proximal tumor cells (Caki-1), an activation of p16(INK4a) and p21(waf1/cip1) was observed. An increased expression of E-26 transformation-specific (ETS) transcription factors was detectable. Using specific antibodies, a complex formation between ETS1 and extracellular signal-regulated kinase-2 (ERK2) was shown. A further complex partner was Mxi2. EMSA with supershift analysis for ETS1 and Mxi2 indicated the involvement of both factors in the protein-DNA interaction. After specifically blocking the endothelin receptors, ETS1 expression was significantly downregulated. However, the endothelin B receptor dependent downregulation was stronger than that of the A receptor. In contrast, primary proximal tubule cells showed a nuclear decrease after ET-1 stimulation. This indicates that other ETS members may be involved in the observed p16(INK4a) upregulation (as described in the literature).
ETS1, ERK2 and Mxi2 are important complex partners initiating increased p16(INK4a) and p21w(af1/cip1) activation in renal tumor cells.
ERK1/2 (extracellular-signal-regulated kinase 1/2) MAPKs (mitogen-activated protein kinases) are tightly regulated by the cellular microenvironment in which they operate. Mxi2 is a p38α splice isoform capable of binding to ERK1/2 and ensuring their translocation to the nucleus. Therein Mxi2 sustains ERK1/2 phosphorylation levels and, as a consequence, ERK1/2 nuclear signals are enhanced. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this process are still unclear. In the present study, we show that Mxi2 prevents nuclear but not cytoplasmic phosphatases from binding to and dephosphorylating ERK1/2, disclosing an unprecedented mechanism for the spatial regulation of ERK1/2 activation. We also demonstrate that the kinetics of ERK1/2 extranuclear signals can be significantly altered by artificially tethering Mxi2 to the cytoplasm. In this case, Mxi2 abolishes ERK1/2 inactivation by cytoplasmic phosphatases and potentiates ERK1/2 functions at this compartment. These results highlight Mxi2 as a key spatial regulator of ERK1/2 functions, playing a pivotal role in the balance between ERK1/2 nuclear and cytoplasmic signals.
Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) are a superfamily of cytoplasmic serine/threonine kinases that transduce many types of extracellular stimuli into cellular responses. p38MAPK is a member of this family with its active form in a diphosphorylated state (p38MAPKdiP). Two strong anti-p38MAPKdiP immunoreactive bands (apparent molecular weight 38 and 34 kDa) were detected by Western blotting in cultured astrocytes. Using a specific antibody and employing immunoprecipitation procedures and SELDI-TOF analysis, the 34 kDa band was found to correspond to Mxi2, a splice variant of p38MAPK; cultured astrocytes therefore express Mxi2. Separate protein extractions of different subcellular fractions, and fluorescent immunovisualisation employing confocal microscopy, showed Mxi2 to have a non-nuclear, cytosolic distribution in the studied cells. ERK1/2, protein whose intracellular distribution is influenced by Mxi2, showed the same cytoplasmic pattern than Mxi2.
Spatial regulation of ERK1/2 MAP kinases is an essential yet largely unveiled mechanism for ensuring the fidelity and specificity of their signals. Mxi2 is a p38alpha isoform with the ability to bind ERK1/2. Herein we show that Mxi2 has profound effects on ERK1/2 nucleocytoplasmic distribution, promoting their accumulation in the nucleus. Downregulation of endogenous Mxi2 by RNAi causes a marked reduction of ERK1/2 in the nucleus, accompanied by a pronounced decline in cellular proliferation. We demonstrate that Mxi2 functions in nuclear shuttling of ERK1/2 by enhancing the nuclear accumulation of both phosphorylated and unphosphorylated forms in the absence of stimulation. This process requires the direct interaction of both proteins and a high-affinity binding of Mxi2 to ERK-binding sites in nucleoporins, In this respect, Mxi2 acts antagonistically to PEA15, displacing it from ERK1/2 complexes. These results point to Mxi2 as a key spatial regulator for ERK1/2 and disclose an unprecedented stimulus-independent mechanism for ERK nuclear import.
Nearly every extracellular ligand that has been found to play a role in regulating bone biology acts, at least in part, through MAPK pathways. Nevertheless, much remains to be learned about the contribution of MAPKs to osteoblast biology in vivo. Here we report that the p38 MAPK pathway is required for normal skeletogenesis in mice, as mice with deletion of any of the MAPK pathway member-encoding genes MAPK kinase 3 (Mkk3), Mkk6, p38a, or p38b displayed profoundly reduced bone mass secondary to defective osteoblast differentiation. Among the MAPK kinase kinase (MAP3K) family, we identified TGF-beta-activated kinase 1 (TAK1; also known as MAP3K7) as the critical activator upstream of p38 in osteoblasts. Osteoblast-specific deletion of Tak1 resulted in clavicular hypoplasia and delayed fontanelle fusion, a phenotype similar to the cleidocranial dysplasia observed in humans haploinsufficient for the transcription factor runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2). Mechanistic analysis revealed that the TAK1-MKK3/6-p38 MAPK axis phosphorylated Runx2, promoting its association with the coactivator CREB-binding protein (CBP), which was required to regulate osteoblast genetic programs. These findings reveal an in vivo function for p38beta and establish that MAPK signaling is essential for bone formation in vivo. These results also suggest that selective p38beta agonists may represent attractive therapeutic agents to prevent bone loss associated with osteoporosis and aging.
We developed a pharmacophore model for type II inhibitors that was used to guide the construction of a library of kinase inhibitors. Kinome-wide selectivity profiling of the library resulted in the identification of a series of 4-substituted 1H-pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridines that exhibited potent inhibitory activity against two mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), TAK1 (MAP3K7) and MAP4K2, as well as pharmacologically well interrogated kinases such as p38α (MAPK14) and ABL. Further investigation of the structure-activity relationship (SAR) resulted in the identification of potent dual TAK1 and MAP4K2 inhibitors such as 1 (NG25) and 2 as well as MAP4K2 selective inhibitors such as 16 and 17. Some of these inhibitors possess good pharmacokinetic properties that will enable their use in pharmacological studies in vivo. A 2.4 Å cocrystal structure of TAK1 in complex with 1 confirms that the activation loop of TAK1 assumes the DFG-out conformation characteristic of type II inhibitors.
p38α mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38α) is activated by a variety of mechanisms, including autophosphorylation initiated by TGFβ-activated kinase 1 binding protein 1 (TAB1) during myocardial ischemia and other stresses. Chemical-genetic approaches and coexpression in mammalian, bacterial and cell-free systems revealed that mouse p38α autophosphorylation occurs in cis by direct interaction with TAB1(371-416). In isolated rat cardiac myocytes and perfused mouse hearts, TAT-TAB1(371-416) rapidly activates p38 and profoundly perturbs function. Crystal structures and characterization in solution revealed a bipartite docking site for TAB1 in the p38α C-terminal kinase lobe. TAB1 binding stabilizes active p38α and induces rearrangements within the activation segment by helical extension of the Thr-Gly-Tyr motif, allowing autophosphorylation in cis. Interference with p38α recognition by TAB1 abolishes its cardiac toxicity. Such intervention could potentially circumvent the drawbacks of clinical pharmacological inhibitors of p38 catalytic activity.
The interdependence of p53 and MDM2 is critical for proper cell survival and cell death and, when altered, can lead to tumorigenesis. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways function in a wide variety of cellular processes, including cell growth, migration, differentiation, and death. Here we discovered that transforming growth factor β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1)-binding protein 1 (TAB1), an activator of TAK1 and of p38α, associates with and inhibits the E3 ligase activity of MDM2 toward p53 and its homolog, MDMX. Depletion of TAB1 inhibits MDM2 siRNA-mediated p53 accumulation and p21 induction, partially rescuing cell cycle arrest induced by MDM2 ablation. Interestingly, of several agents commonly used as DNA-damaging therapeutics, only cell death caused by cisplatin is mitigated by knockdown of TAB1. Two mechanisms are required for TAB1 to regulate apoptosis in cisplatin-treated cells. First, p38α is activated by TAB1 to phosphorylate p53 N-terminal sites, leading to selective induction of p53 targets such as NOXA. Second, MDMX is stabilized in a TAB1-dependent manner and is required for cell death after cisplatin treatment. Interestingly TAB1 levels are relatively low in cisplatin-resistant clones of ovarian cells and in ovarian patient's tumors compared with normal ovarian tissue. Together, our results indicate that TAB1 is a potential tumor suppressor that serves as a functional link between p53-MDM2 circuitry and a key MAPK signaling pathway.
Targeting the adaptor protein (transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β)-activated protein kinase 1 (TAK1)-binding protein 1) (TAB1)-mediated non-canonical activation of p38α to limit ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury after an acute myocardial infarction seems to be attractive since TAB1/p38α interaction occurs specifically in very limited circumstances and possesses unique structural basis. However, so far no TAB1/p38α interaction inhibitor has been reported due to the limited knowledge about the interfaces. In this study, we sought to identify key amino acids essential for the unique mode of interaction with computer-guided molecular simulations and molecular docking. After validation of the predicted three-dimensional (3-D) structure of TAB1/p38α complex, we designed several peptides and evaluated whether they could block TAB1/p38α interaction with selectivity. We found that a cell-permeable peptide worked as a selective TAB1/p38α interaction inhibitor and decreased myocardial I/R injury. To our knowledge, this is the first TAB1/p38α interaction inhibitor.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) p38α is a key regulator in many cellular processes, whose activity is tightly regulated by upstream kinases, phosphatases and other regulators. Transforming growth factor-β activated kinase 1 (TAK1) is an upstream kinase in p38α signaling, and its full activation requires a specific activator, the TAK1-binding protein (TAB1). TAB1 was also shown to be an inducer of p38α's autophosphorylation and/or a substrate driving the feedback control of p38α signaling. Here we determined the complex structure of the unphosphorylated p38α and a docking peptide of TAB1, which shows that the TAB1 peptide binds to the classical MAPK docking groove and induces long-range conformational changes on p38α. Our structural and biochemical analyses suggest that TAB1 is a reasonable substrate of p38α, yet the interaction between the docking peptide and p38α may not be sufficient to trigger trans-autophosphorylation of p38α.
The accurate pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis (UC) is not yet well understood. Recently, Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), TLR4 and gut microbial flora have been proved as playing important roles in the process of UC. This study was to evaluate the effect of TLR2 and TLR4 monoclonal antibodies on gut microbial flora in dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis in a mouse model.
We evaluated the effects of the TLR2 and TLR4 monoclonal antibodies on the development of DSS-induced colitis. Clinical symptoms were evaluated by the disease activity index (DAI), while tissue samples were evaluated by histological scoring (HS). Meanwhile, the mucosal mRNA expressions of TLR2, TLR4, interferon-γ (IFN-γ), interleukin-4 (IL-4) and IL-17 were analyzed by Realtime polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The mucosal protein TRAF6, TAB1, P-IKK, P-P38α mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPL) and c-jun expressions of the TLR2 and TLR4 signaling pathways were analyzed using Western blot. The mucosal nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) was analyzed using electrophoretic mobility shift assay. Fecal samples were obtained directly from the cecum for microbiological studies.
Expressions of TLR2 and TLR4 in colonic epithelial cells on DSS-induced colitis were much higher than normal ones. After the treatment with TLR2mAb and TLR4mAb, DAI and HS were decreased significantly. The UC model group showed a conspicuous increase of Escherichia coli and decreases of Lactobacillus spp. and Bifidobacterium spp. After being treated with TLR2mAb or/and TLR4mAb, Lactobacillus spp. and Bifidobacterium spp. increased to the normal level.
TLR2mAb and TLR4mAb can suppress the development of DSS-induced colitis and increase counts of Lactobacilli and Bifidobacteria.
p38 is an important stress activated protein kinase involved in gene regulation, proliferation, differentiation, and cell death regulation in heart. p38 kinase activity can be induced through canonical pathway via upstream kinases or by noncanonical autophosphorylation. The intracellular p38 kinase activity is tightly regulated and maintained at low level under basal condition. The underlying regulatory mechanism for canonical p38 kinase activation is well-studied, but the regulation of noncanonical p38 autophosphorylation remains poorly understood.
We investigated the molecular basis for the regulation of noncanonical p38 autophosphorylation and its potential functional impact in cardiomyocytes.
Using both proteomic and biochemical tools, we established that heat shock protein (Hsp)90-Cdc37 chaperones are part of the p38alpha signaling complex in mammalian cells both in vitro and in vivo. The Hsp90-Cdc37 chaperone complex interacts with p38 via direct binding between p38 and Cdc37. Cdc37 expression is both sufficient and necessary to suppress noncanonical p38 activation via autophosphorylation at either basal state or under TAB1 (TAK1 binding protein-1) induction. In contrast, Cdc37 expression has no impact on p38 activation by canonical upstream kinase MKK3 or oxidative stress. Furthermore, Hsp90 inhibition results in p38 activation via autophosphorylation, and p38 activity contribute to apoptotic cell death induced by Hsp90 inhibition.
Our study has revealed a so far uncharacterized function of Hsp90-Cdc37 as an endogenous regulator of noncanonical p38 activity.
Previous studies have revealed that transforming growth factor-beta-activated protein kinase 1 (TAB1) interacts with p38alpha and induces p38alpha autophosphorylation. Here, we examine the sequence requirements in TAB1 and p38alpha that drive their interaction. Deletion and point mutations in TAB1 reveal that a proline residue in the C terminus of TAB1 (Pro412) is necessary for its interaction with p38alpha. Furthermore, a cryptic D-domain-like docking site was identified adjacent to the N terminus of Pro412, putting Pro412 in the phi(B)+3 position of the docking site. Through mutational analysis, we found that the previously identified hydrophobic docking groove in p38alpha is involved in this interaction, whereas the CD domain and ED domain are not. Furthermore, chimeric analysis with p38beta (which does not bind to TAB1) revealed a previously unidentified locus of p38alpha comprising Thr218 and Ile275 that is essential for specific binding of p38alpha to TAB1. Converting either of these residues to the corresponding amino acid of p38beta abolishes p38alpha interaction with TAB1. These p38alpha mutants still can be fully activated by p38alpha upstream activating kinase mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 6, but their basal activity and activation in response to some extracellular stimuli are reduced. Adjacent to Thr218 and Ile275 is a site where large conformational changes occur in the presence of docking-site peptides derived from p38alpha substrates and activators. This suggests that TAB1-induced autophosphorylation of p38alpha results from conformational changes that are similar but unique to those seen in p38alpha interactions with its substrates and activating kinases.
Maturation of dendritic cells (DCs) is critical for their ability to stimulate resting naive T cells in primary immune responses. Previous studies demonstrated that collagen, such as type I collagen, could facilitate DC maturation; however, the basis of collagen-mediated DC maturation remains unclear. Discoidin domain receptor 1 (DDR1) is a nonintegrin collagen receptor constitutively expressed in a variety of epithelial cells, including tumor cells, and is inducible in leukocytes. In this study, we evaluated the role of DDR1 in DC maturation using human monocyte-derived DCs. Two DDR1 isoforms, DDR1a and DDR1b, were expressed in both immature and mature DCs. Activation of DDR1 on immature DCs resulted in their partial maturation; however, DDR1 activation markedly amplified TNF-alpha- and LPS-induced phenotypic and functional maturation of DCs through activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), suggesting the involvement of DDR1b in this process. Activation of DDR1b on differentiated DDR1b-overexpressing THP-1 cells or DDR1 on mature DCs induced the formation of TNFR associated factor 6 (TRAF6)/TGF-beta-activated kinase 1 binding protein 1beta/p38alpha MAPK complex and p38alpha autophosphorylation. Transfection of differentiated DDR1b-overexpressing THP-1 cells with dominant negative TRAF6 completely abrogated DDR1b-mediated p38 MAPK phosphorylation, indicating a critical role of TRAF6 in DDR1b-mediated p38 MAPK activation. Taken together, our data suggest that DDR1b-collagen interaction augments the maturation of DCs in a tissue microenvironment through a unique TRAF6/TGF-beta-activated kinase 1 binding protein 1beta/p38alpha MAPK signaling cascade and contributes to the development of adaptive immune responses.
The mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) play an important role in a variety of biological processes. Activation of MAPKs is mediated by phosphorylation on specific regulatory tyrosine and threonine sites. We have recently found that activation of p38alpha MAPK can be carried out not only by its upstream MAPK kinases (MKKs) but also by p38alpha autophosphorylation. p38alpha autoactivation requires an interaction of p38alpha with TAB1 (transforming growth factor-beta-activated protein kinase 1-binding protein 1). The autoactivation mechanism of p38alpha has been found to be important in cellular responses to a number of physiologically relevant stimuli. Here, we report the characterization of a splicing variant of TAB1, TAB1beta. TAB1 and TAB1beta share the first 10 exons. The 11th and 12th exons of TAB1 were spliced out in TAB1beta, and an extra exon, termed exon beta, downstream of exons 11 and 12 in the genome was used as the last exon in TAB1beta. The mRNA of TAB1beta was expressed in all cell lines examined. The TAB1beta mRNA encodes a protein with an identical sequence to TAB1 except the C-terminal 69 amino acids were replaced with an unrelated 27-amino acid sequence. Similar to TAB1, TAB1beta interacts with p38alpha but not other MAPKs and stimulates p38alpha autoactivation. Different from TAB1, TAB1beta does not bind or activate TAK1. Inhibition of TAB1beta expression with RNA interference in MDA231 breast cancer cells resulted in the reduction of basal activity of p38alpha and invasiveness of MDA231 cells, suggesting that TauAlphaBeta1beta is involved in regulating p38alpha activity in physiological conditions.
Phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) on specific tyrosine and threonine sites by MAP kinase kinases (MAPKKs) is thought to be the sole activation mechanism. Here, we report an unexpected activation mechanism for p38alpha MAPK that does not involve the prototypic kinase cascade. Rather it depends on interaction of p38alpha with TAB1 [transforming growth factor-beta-activated protein kinase 1 (TAK1)-binding protein 1] leading to autophosphorylation and activation of p38alpha. We detected formation of a TRAF6-TAB1-p38alpha complex and showed stimulus-specific TAB1-dependent and TAB1-independent p38alpha activation. These findings suggest that alternative activation pathways contribute to the biological responses of p38alpha to various stimuli.
